and when you improve searchability , you actually take away the one advantage of print , which is serendipity .

but what if it were active ?

but they did n't test for curiosity .

and this conscious defiance is why i , as an agnostic , can still have faith .

you can use everything on the table on me .

`` i write a lot about `` '' security theater , '' '' which are products that make people feel secure , but do n't actually do anything . ''

and they 've put it deep down in an iron mine in minnesota , ok , deep under the ground , and in fact , in the last couple of days announced the most sensitive results so far .

see , some people might fear girls not liking them back .

no , what happened to us , chris , is that power , it 's priced off the margin .

back to my question : why did i stay ?

`` when i found out that there are a whole bunch of industries that did n't have copyright protection , i thought , `` '' what exactly is the underlying logic ? ''

now the second round of voting did not bring forth a clear winner either .

the surgery was successful .

so instead , we turned to a new generation of video sensors , originally created for use in night vision goggles .

hi , my name is marcin — farmer , technologist .

maybe it 's time we get a toolbox that does n't just count what 's easily counted , the tangible in life , but actually counts what we most value , the things that are intangible .

and in addition to that , it 's been predicted that at the end of the century almost all of the languages that exist now — there are about 6,000 — will no longer be spoken .

i was loved .

and the brain is deciding what is the texture associated with the reward .

i feel so strongly that you can not ask a small farmer to work the land and bend over to grow a hectare of rice , 150,000 times , just to plant a crop and weed it .

so potentially , with this new lever that we have with the nanopatch , we can help make that happen .

now the big , important point here is that the person is the complex machine in this system .

in theory , refugees have a right to seek asylum .

let 's talk about dna analysis in space .

how did it feel like inside the company during that period ?

i think it 's time to upgrade the system .

i began a project way back called the green accounting project .

it 's value created by the participants for each other .

so do n't worry about climate change .

well , as it turns out , there is an algorithm for love .

and the whiter the bread , in many countries , the better it is .

also , we must stop criminalizing mental illness .

again , the thing that 's incredible about this is this is how advanced these devices have become .

and i said , i 'll measure them . they 'll get a zero .

it was like i had some sort of survivor 's remorse .

we perish , they survive ; we have one life , they have many lives , and in each life they can mean different things .

this will not stop .

he is the celebration and ideal of exactly this kind of creativity .

thank you .

we seem to be spending more and more money .

yes , i 'm in rap songs .

so one plus one plus four is six .

so you see , we did use a lot of symbols and things like that .

stewart brand : well , the earlier point is we interfered in a big way by making these animals go extinct , and many of them were keystone species , and we changed the whole ecosystem they were in by letting them go .

no , right , i 'm ready .

it 's a lot of pressure , trying to be that perfect family behind that white picket fence .

( applause )

`` in a sense if you want to think about it this is the classic `` batteries not included . '' ''

now it is quoted in the stock exchange .

it has an extensive atmosphere .

oh , yeah , yeah , yeah , yeah , of course i accept .

this has been the case throughout history , all the way back to the year 300 bc , when a 13-year-old became the king of a remote , very poor and very small asian country .

and that 's why the story was news .

`` the reality is , there 's the woolworth building in a veil of smoke from the site , but it 's now like a scrim across a theater , and it 's turning pink , you know , and down below there are hoses spraying , and the lights have come on for the evening , and the water is turning acid green because the sodium lamps are on , and i 'm thinking , `` '' my god , who could dream this up ? '' '' but the fact is , i 'm there , it looks like that , you have to take a picture . ''

yet , that vaccine is not available in large numbers because it 's too expensive .

we exist yet . i was last week at the brazilian national indian foundation , and only in the amazon we have about 110 groups of indians that are not contacted yet .

so 60 seconds was how long it took for the physical earthquake to travel .

how many places in america are going to change ? none .

so something completely different is to keep on challenging your perception about the resources surrounding you , whether they are environmental , technological , animal , or human .

i was also interested in the physicality of this format , because you have to walk to see it .

and the secret is she opens every single one .

and the nations they 're in can help .

`` for those of you who i 'll be fortunate enough to meet afterwards , you could please refrain from saying , `` oh my god , you 're so much shorter in real life . '' ''

the technology was there .

changes for the worse begin with the cruel reality that we now have more old people and fewer young people than at any time in the past .

the same way that this uses the camera to get information into scratch , you can also use the microphone .

now , the tor browser was originally a u.s. naval intelligence project .

so that was my story .

even worse , with our intention of trying to make buildings move towards a net-zero energy state , we ca n't do it just by making mechanical systems more and more efficient .

we can look at the pollution from china .

but does it just happen over there ?

it can not hide behind the black hole .

it looked like an inverted bracket , and we would drop whatever we were doing and we would follow , and then we would come around the corner , and there she would be with her herd .

if we can have mars rovers , you 'd think you could turn pages .

so i sort of feel happy that i 'm still astonished by it .

`` i looked down on twitter . there was a tweet : `` adam , have you seen the new largest prime number ? '' ''

so it 's understandable that engineers would look for a technical fix to the fears that people have of nuclear .

and only if your per capita income is above 6,000 dollars a year will you have democracy come hell or high water .

but then by the end of the decade , the country had fallen back into political instability and mismanagement .

when i was five , i went to school and i learned braille .

jean vanier says that his work , like the work of other people — his great , beloved , late friend mother teresa — is never in the first instance about changing the world ; it 's in the first instance about changing ourselves .

our first attempts to get the government of bali on board failed .

it had some strings and pulleys and some springs .

and there was a lawyer in nairobi , ory okolloh — who some of you may know from her tedtalk — who began blogging about it on her site , kenyan pundit .

and sweden was like mozambique .

do we all make things with a venue , a context , in mind ?

so hold the mystery of the dark energy in the back of your mind as i now go on to tell you three key things about string theory .

now this was being broadcast live .

be a discerning consumer .

thank you .

but the religious world does n't think that way .

and the second , is that we actually do n't have a clue of what all these products that surround us are made of .

hey , let 's all be interior sound designers , take on listening to our rooms and designing sound that 's effective and appropriate .

now , this goes both ways .

`` everything that she does that gives me pleasure could be giving somebody else pleasure , maybe right about now . '' '' and this is the story he starts to tell himself , and from then on , proust writes that every fresh charm swann detects in his mistress , he adds to his `` '' collection of instruments in his private torture chamber . '' '' now swann and proust , we have to admit , were notoriously jealous . ''

scandinavian countries are so wonderful because they have this legacy of being small , homogenous countries .

now , today , breeders have even more options to choose from .

i admit the sight of the leash would excite me , but only because it meant i was about to smell things you had never touched .

we need to stop wars .

and he 's not the only one in the world .

and it turns out that the greatest predictor of a case of violence is a preceding case of violence .

and as it became cheaper , bread manufacturers decided to add in all kinds of things .

thank you .

yes , by the time they retire , futureless language speakers , holding constant their income , are going to retire with 25 percent more in savings .

you 'll buy gps dots in bulk , and you 'll stick them on everything you own worth more than a few tens of dollars .

now , when a planet transits a star , it blocks out a little bit of this light , and the depth of this transit reflects the size of the object itself .

if we continued in that vein , it would 've never happened .

we give them lots of instruction , and we never ever deceive them .

any tool can be used to build or to destroy .

it sounds simple . it 's not .

we do not look after our victims , and we do not enable them , and what i 'm going to try and show is that actually , victims are the best weapon we have against more terrorism .

this is offshore .

we were determined to fight for girls not just in my community , but even in other communities .

you people , the church of ted , are a very optimistic community .

we can choose otherwise .

people there love this .

so it 's essentially a completely abstract , a completely arbitrary representation of something which is in the real world , and this is something that children with autism have an incredible amount of difficulty with .

let 's think about it and what it means , but please , let 's not do more of that .

and mental set is another thing . right ?

`` so , the first think that comes to mind is , `` '' if literacy is down here , let 's make it rise '' '' — is n't it ? ''

its focus , instead , is to distract us at every turn on the road .

and so with the standard method , the cells do fire , they just do n't fire in the normal firing patterns because they do n't have the right code .

you could inform school policy .

but they 're not .

that is not a good idea .

`` the amazon is the `` '' lung of the world , '' '' because of its massive power to have vital gases exchanged between the forest and the atmosphere . ''

but if you were to float by in space on a space holiday and you heard this , you want to get moving .

some discover .

it 's where we go from this to this .

and 60 seconds is the amount of time it took for it to travel 250 kilometers to managua .

it 's risk and demand .

two weeks ago , i just got back from papua new guinea where i went up to the highlands — very isolated tribes of subsistence farmers living as they have lived for millenia .

`` and that actually , at that moment something happened to me , which obviously made me go , `` '' i 'm going to document . ''

and my dad is the most voracious reader i know .

now i 'm going to close with a video that is kind of unusual .

`` i knew there were no computers that could do what you need to do to win on `` '' jeopardy . '' '' people do n't realize how tough it is to write that kind of program that can read a `` '' jeopardy '' '' clue in a natural language like english and understand all the double meanings , the puns , the red herrings , unpack the meaning of the clue . ''

the private sector does n't naturally put its resources into these things .

and what i 'm trying to talk about here today is to say that i believe that is a false dichotomy .

i 've been incarcerated for 39 and one half years .

thank you for coming to ted .

extroversion and agreeableness are both conducive to working well with people .

today we have choices .

okay , anyone with your hands still up has challenges of your own . ( laughter ) so we all face challenges , and we all face the dark unknown , which is endemic to most challenges , which is what most of us fear , okay ?

their children are more self-confident , more independent , and more socially skilled than are our children .

some days , she traveled as little as 15 feet .

okay , let me just say , there 's some good news .

it 's been a severe disease for thousands of years .

organic chemists make molecules , very complicated molecules , by chopping up a big molecule into small molecules and reverse engineering .

imagine for a moment that , instead of tim harford in front of you , there was hans rosling presenting his graphs .

in chicago , there 's amazing building stock .

and the answer is skeletons .

now on to the treatment and cure .

we have a mathematical framework based on generic universal principles that can answer those questions .

that is exactly why we 've designed the grid to back up failed plants with working plants .

thank you very much .

( laughter ) it 's fairly self-explanatory .

but it 's not just homer .

and he pulled the whole mean down , destroying my statistical significance of the test .

now is the time to create something new , something vital .

and if you could do that , then you could find the genes for aging .

( applause )

please meet jane .

we need to find more money for game design .

a part of me had become alienated from myself .

every line between them is a relationship between two people — different kinds of relationships .

in 1980 , 80 percent of china 's population lived below the extreme poverty level , below the level of having $ 1.90 per person per day .

i was n't impulsive , i did n't react right away , because i know this is their house .

google has to reveal how much they spend , in general , and that lets you put some caps on how many data centers could they be building , because a big data center costs a certain amount of money .

it keeps on occurring again and again , from many theories and many experiments , as a great example of the universality which is so dear to us mathematicians .

and grasshoppers have a different kind of breathing system .

so i decided to start a lawsuit against them , because i wanted to have this information .

and so it is with archimedes , the great greek mathematician .

it 's one of the leitmotifs of science fiction .

those iconic images of the astronauts bouncing on the moon obscure the alcoholism and depression on earth .

some sharks can lose 30,000 teeth in their lifetime .

and we call her bina 48 .

it 's us .

thank you .

it is normal and natural for humans to be felled by massive epidemics of polio , of smallpox , of tuberculosis .

i do n't know where julian morrow got that from .

i dream of a level scientific playing field , where people encourage respect and respect each other , where people exchange strategies and discover together .

( applause )

well , are you sure ?

you would see those connections and get maps of the brain .

( laughter ) we 're hardwired to become leaders of the pack .

a nanometer is a billionth of a meter .

my talk today draws on this research to reveal why arabs rose up and what they want now .

i mean , imagine putting a penis into another penis .

how could you keep the law ?

and we have shifted it to a model of free choice and individual rights , and self-fulfillment and happiness .

this film has no copyright .

we do n't know .

already a universal donor : kidneys , corneas , liver , lungs , tissue , heart , veins , whatever .

tomato soup , peanut butter , chocolate , noodles — any processed food that you 're eating contains insects , because insects are here all around us , and when they 're out there in nature they 're also in our crops .

if before i was resisting , then now i was surrendering , giving up trying to control the uncontrollable and just being there in it with her .

first of all , oxytocin is a shy molecule .

it says that if you examine any piece of matter ever more finely , at first you 'll find molecules and then you 'll find atoms and subatomic particles .

and so what that really means is that our structures now contain the blueprints of what we want to build .

chances are that they are rooted in the productivity crisis .

can that be accomplished with existing signs ?

see this hand ?

did you see wall-e ?

i was aware of everything , just like any normal person .

when we realized how much expensive it is to have a lot of neurons in the brain , i figured , maybe there 's a simple reason .

it 's something that i have to do with other people .

and the professional , historical linguists in the u.s .

every kid lives near nature .

presumably , they did so first in the middle east , where there were neanderthals living .

do you support the idea of some kind of price on carbon ?

that 's a very important component of roots and shoots , with older kids talking to younger ones .

and besides , skylines are highly specific urban habitats with their own insects , plants and animals , and even their own weather .

that 's a pretty interesting concept in itself .

life 's hum .

nowhere else has healing and rapprochement been tested like it has in south africa .

stop global warming ; use condoms .

so much so that i appropriated arthur marshall 's grandfather .

stagehand : break a leg .

again , it 's being freely distributed .

( applause ) one of the reasons why an institution is not in itself enough is that we have got to persuade people around the world to change their behavior as well , so you need that global ethic of fairness and responsibility across the generations .

on march 23 , 2010 , the twins were born , and they were both born alive .

but let 's say for a moment that you were .

because i think that 's a lot of how we look at language .

the director of sports who 's responsible for getting her into the program asks her to come out of class .

but we were expected to have doubts ; we 're expected to have fears .

so , what would our natural rhythm look like ?

thank you all very much .

who am i in this picture ?

okay , got it . i do n't want to talk stage one .

there were many moments when i gave up , sinking into a dark abyss .

we 're designers . we 're inventors .

thank you very much .

`` are you in anyway related to the dutch government ? '' '' i thought that was really weird , as if the dutch government sends emails to anyone . ''

contemplation , meditation , being deep in thought .

but none of them worked .

one of the things that 's great is i love to people-watch .

`` `` '' am i too late ? ''

and due to changes in globalization , changes due to advances in technology and other factors , the reality is our organizations are constantly having to adapt .

green school is going into its third year with 160 children .

certainly , if in the future we learn there is an area of the human brain that lights up when one curses oneself , i wo n't be at all surprised .

`` `` you know , squint . '' ''

( laughter ) it is a design that challenges your intuition — it is not what you think it is when you first see it .

together , we 've come together to bear witness to these women 's lost lives .

i realize that 's an ambiguous statement .

you will surely find the perfect match .

hands up .

and so , it is not until age seven that we get what looks more like an adult response .

we could take cars off the roads for a generation .

let 's look at a country like india .

this does express the humanity of what 's going on , and the personal relationships , but that is also like saying that it 's the same thing as a yard sale or a bake sale or babysitting .

everyone they knew lived in similar circumstances , and it was still better than the dormitories and homes of rural china .

and the second is that it could be responsible for the problem of the cold chain that i 'll tell you about as well .

and when they eat the seeds , their foie gras turns yellow .

and i want to tell you how we were able to make sense out of this code .

or languages have different word orders .

( laughter ) ( applause ) this is grace dammann .

now , there 's over 4,000 rabbits across the united states and 5,000 more on the waiting list .

people are n't close or distant .

i 'm going to tell you how to get the united states completely off oil and coal , five trillion dollars cheaper with no act of congress led by business for profit .

and the size of the room is not that big .

musicians are left with crumbs at the end of the whole food chain .

and this radical proposal has a profound impact on this mystery : the amount of dark energy revealed by the nobel prize-winning results .

`` albert einstein called this state , this dimension , `` only being . '' ''

with artificial intelligence , not only have they not created artificial intelligence , they have n't yet created artificial stupidity .

and gallery one is an interesting project because it started with this massive , $ 350 million expansion for the cleveland museum of art , and we actually brought in this piece specifically to grow new capacity , new audiences , at the same time that the museum itself is growing .

by the time tommy is in kindergarten , he 's already underperforming in math .

not one spot of dirt . the airs were brand new .

my story does not have an end , because we still do n't know the end of the story .

stealing from you the opportunity to choose how you want to live your lives in the context of whatever disease it is .

we 'd been in a budding relationship for a bit over a month when our school 's christmas ball was held .

but perhaps the most amazing example of the lengths that people were prepared to go to to help me read the world , came towards the end of my quest , when i tried to get hold of a book from the tiny , portuguese-speaking african island nation of são tomé and príncipe .

and each day , a thousand babies — a thousand babies are born each day with hiv in africa .

exactly what we predicted happened .

the oculus rift has been described as one of the most realistic virtual reality devices ever created , and that is not empty hype .

so it 's possible to achieve , let 's say , roughly 100-fold improvement in the cost of spaceflight if you can effectively reuse the rocket .

and guess what ? our nanoparticle is considered a foreign object .

and three , that i would get to show john what women with children can do .

and we wanted to push the idea of the music video that was meant for the web beyond the four-by-three or sixteen-by-nine window and try to make it play out and choreograph throughout the screen .

so security is two different things : it 's a feeling , and it 's a reality .

and that , as indicated by the white line , occurred 46 days before the peak of the epidemic .

design soundscapes to be beautiful around you at home and at work .

poop 's not particularly adequate .

both the problems and the tools to solve them are right before us .

so i hushed my voice .

the thing is , is that it 's slightly dangerous .

so there you go . my name is john hodgman .

but it turns out we can feel like we 're in two places at once .

it stands for mutually assured destruction .

so genomics , proteomics , the environment , all this data streaming at us individually and us , as poor physicians , how do we manage it ?

now , evan is new to this system , so what we have to do first is create a new profile for him .

and this attracts metals from their local environment .

see , we used to have a lot of apples .

and boltzmann 's contribution was that he helped us understand entropy .

the really astonishing thing though about this manuscript is that we looked at the other manuscripts that the palimpsester had made , the scribe had made his book out of , and one of them was a manuscript containing text by hyperides .

hg : i want you to see very clearly that i 'm going to open your bill and reveal a small secret that we created .

and so in her lived experience , malaria is something that comes and goes .

so you do n't only know that he 's going off course , you know how .

ca : how big ?

one : that society equates living in a permanent structure , even a shack , with having value as a person .

the problem was you actually had to go to alexandria to go to it .

we need to find ways of solving the problems around this , because these things are so complicated .

that ca n't be energetically sensible .

now , when humans think about sex , male and female forms are generally what come to mind , but for many millions of years , such specific categories did n't even exist .

`` min 's sister said to her parents , `` in america , this bag sells for 320 dollars . '' ''

so the people went back to the polls to determine their own president , not the legal system .

in fact , we were the only people in the universe .

it 's a national tragedy and scandal that the l.a. county jail is the biggest psychiatric facility in the united states .

a real moonshot , powered by 3d printing .

( video ) computer : a person sitting at a table with a cake .

jh : that 's right .

i found that the gezi protesters were despairing .

it 's just a minute and a half .

we do n't know the answers , we do n't know if we 're going to find them , and we know that the risks are high .

what if we could have these same digital powers in our world ?

and i knew exactly what that meant .

( applause )

that 's already over 140,000 different combinations .

everyone asks about the smell .

and in string theory , vibration determines everything .

could we reinvent fire ?

our city could n't possibly handle any more cars .

and , of course , it 's difficult .

when she collected the photos from us , she shared a bit of her story with us .

but what if we were smarter about how we designed satellites ?

es : canada is different than what i expected .

the small warhead is taking one cascade , and spinning up the rotors and slowing them down , and the big warhead is talking to six cascades and manipulating valves .

there 's still some confusion about that question , as this is a fairly new field of research .

i mean , how do you , the company , benefit ?

one in four of all adults in the united states suffers from mental illness , which means that if you have n't experienced it personally or someone in your family has n't , it 's still very likely that someone you know has , though they may not talk about it .

you do n't intend to be an entrepreneur .

that 's not sustainable either .

two hundred years of modern science .

a land where every field hides a grave , where millions of people have been deported or killed in the 20th century .

according to the israeli army itself , 97 percent of activities during the first intifada were unarmed .

when we started this project , one of the core ideas was to look back in history and try to understand what was there .

and to do that , they need a western education .

but i think that can change , too .

so each building has its own personality .

fifth is peer learning .

you who gave us life took it away .

thank you .

and tv , satellite and cable revenues are way up .

goldman sachs has projected that china , the chinese economy , will surpass that of the u.s .

they 're different from me and you .

and this changes the way people live , move , enjoy the city .

it does n't matter the technology .

by the way , the dalai lama is someone who has aged beautifully , but who wants to be vegetarian and celibate ?

( applause ) however , gaddafi left behind a heavy burden , a legacy of tyranny , corruption and seeds of diversions .

only after we learned to pass knowledge from one generation to the next , did civilization become possible .

and that 's what supports the object and keeps it stable .

i love finding , wearing , and more recently , photographing and blogging a different , colorful , crazy outfit for every single occasion .

and we also saw that they are very professionally engineered by people who obviously had all insider information .

the televised death and march had a huge impact on public opinion .

but what if we put more focus on quality ?

all these amazing things that i was being exposed to and experiencing , i felt i was n't really supposed to have .

when deah opened it , their neighbor proceeded to fire multiple shots at him .

as we made our way up towards the spectacular blue mountains west of sydney , it was the perfect autumn day : sunshine , the smell of eucalypt and a dream .

so let me take a moment to tell you what i mean by a gravitational wave .

in fact , if we count all the individual organisms , we would come at much larger numbers .

so what i 'm going to tell you about today is a device that we 've been working on that i think has the potential to make a difference , to be much more effective , and what i wanted to do is show you how it works . okay , so let me back up a little bit and show you how a normal retina works first so you can see the problem that we were trying to solve .

and so we finally ended up making it .

you can make your own novel ecosystem , too .

you open your eyes and there 's the world .

and he also plays golf , like you do in virginia when you are retired .

`` she said , `` '' you are , because , see , it happens to everyone . ''

( laughter ) what a mess — have you ever tried to wire up a system as complex as this ?

so when i began to dive , in 2005 , i realized scuba gear extends your range of activity in just the same way as a wheelchair does , but the associations attached to scuba gear are ones of excitement and adventure , completely different to people 's responses to the wheelchair .

and also start with a little bit of statistics .

it turns out , it does a little , but not a lot .

but the lines that carry meaningful information are usually very short — a few dozen to several thousand letters long .

there 's a sort of myth that black holes devour everything in the universe , but you actually have to get very close to fall in .

`` how would we ever determine that ? '' '' we said , well , what do you do ? ''

there is nothing here that we do n't know .

and i 'm going to take you through the architecture of the machine — that 's why it 's computer architecture — and tell you about this machine , which is a computer .

and that 's where it 's actually also interesting to think about , where does 404 come from ?

time does not belong to us .

it 's tough .

simple .

those tribal societies , which constituted all human societies for most of human history , are far more diverse than are our modern , recent , big societies .

we 're pale , gray creatures .

this will be your one takeaway from this whole conference .

so , almost anywhere i went , there they were .

we basically gave children a very simple challenge .

( applause )

now i 'm sure as everyone in the audience already knows — i did have to explain it to my nine-year-old late last week — penises are structures that transfer sperm from one individual to another .

his name from eric parker , and he was the head football coach for the burke county bears .

it 's 50 percent above the category average .

and i decided that , in fact , i did n't really want to create complicated stuff .

or hugh will say what type of cliff do i want to climb ?

now most people , when they think about what is smart and what is dumb , i think have in mind a picture roughly like this .

ml : you see , some people may not do it . they may not get through it .

let 's talk dirty .

and that was when i had the idea .

`` 'you want me to uh ... ? ' '' '' you know , totally begrudging . ''

a few years ago , the number of babies dying in their first year of life in the world fell by five percent in just one year .

every vehicle is equipped with an automatic payload and battery exchange mechanism , so these vehicles navigate to those ground stations , they dock , swap a battery automatically , and go out again .

we take the good for granted , and we moan and groan at the bad .

alfred mann is a brilliant physicist and innovator who 's fascinated with bridging gaps in consciousness , whether to restore hearing to the deaf , vision to the blind or movement to the paralyzed .

in a quick reaction , which one looks odd ?

but , you know , the even better news is that this technology is no longer reserved for deep-pocketed corporations .

you know , calculus is wonderful .

in a city where this should n't happen because they have really mild weather that ranges from 20 to 25 degrees the whole year .

and these monocultures extend even to crops that are good for bees , like almonds .

do they have great reviews and ratings , or do they have no profile at all ?

and that is the reason why i believe they should be defined as public goods .

so a dumb attacker will try every password in order .

it might just save their lives .

but they greatly underestimated the scientific challenge .

`` the nice thing is that these gold particles actually made it all the way to the tumor , and then they shine out and tell us , `` '' hey , we 're here . here 's the tumor . '' '' so now we can see the tumor , but we 're not showing this to the doctor yet . ''

we should do something about that .

chris emdin : so i can i get an amen ? audience : amen .

please be excited , have fun , yell , scream .

fear was the only sane response , the only human response .

john is one of [ about ] a dozen very heroic , courageous people who volunteered for the study .

now if we manage to compromise these systems that control drive speeds and valves , we can actually cause a lot of problems with the centrifuge .

because once you feel that you ca n't stand in the central space and speak on behalf of the world , you will feel that you can offer your goods up to a small , select group .

now what we can do is point at the front of the newspaper and immediately get the bulletin .

it 's a good question . how do you feel about how you spend your time each day ?

`` but he was credited with coining the phrase , `` '' because it 's there . '' '' now i 'm not actually sure that he did say that . ''

that 's a little bit scary .

we have learned to talk to the big brain — taste and reward , as you know .

she was very , very shy .

walt whitman also did this back in the day , before there was internet technology . sock puppet becomes interesting when we get to scale , which is the domain of the chinese water army .

voice 4 : all the outpouring of affection and emotion that came from our country was something really that will forever , ever stay with me .

a single honest man , and he died without finding one back in greece . and we have confucius in the east who was really concerned with sincerity , not only that you walked the walk or talked the talk , but that you believed in what you were doing .

indeed , mental illnesses are also very damaging to people 's lives , but beyond just the burden of disease , let us consider the absolute numbers .

it 's about what we do right here , right now , and for the rest of our working lives .

and it also looked like infectious epidemics .

the crowd grew angry and began to complain loudly .

`` because when these people get home after a screening of `` '' rear window '' '' and raise their gaze to the building next door , they have the tools to wonder who , apart from them , is out there and what is their story . ''

step one is the step i 'm wearing right now , google glass .

having your body laid out to be eaten by animals is not for everyone .

their parents are so poor , they have no resources to get them back .

`` it seems almost too prophetic that her name in korean means `` passionate clarity . '' ''

diarrhea is the second biggest killer of children worldwide , and you 've probably been asked to care about things like hiv/aids or t.b . or measles , but diarrhea kills more children than all those three things put together .

you 've gone through hundreds of tv channels , just switching channel after channel , and then suddenly you actually stop on one .

after all , at least on paper , there 's this notion that these state budgets are balanced .

the creator is a sharecropper in this story .

now , we evolved in rather more challenging times than these , in a world of horns and tusks and fangs and claws .

now , you take pre-kindergarten .

and i prototyped a project where students can create a light-up creature using fabric and googly eyes .

thank you very much .

it 's like the guy is sitting next to you , whispering who knows what into your ear .

the whole campaign crashed , malaria resurged back , but now it was even worse than before because it was corralled into the hardest-to-reach places in the most difficult-to-control forms .

this is not sustainable .

it 's gotten smaller , it 's got less detail , less resolve .

the restaurant business in seattle ? booming .

it had black-and-white curbs .

that 's arthur leipzig 's original photograph i loved .

this is represented by a simple equation , and it 's a beautiful pattern .

it never happened .

cities are fundamentally about people , and where people go and where people meet are at the core of what makes a city work .

so maybe it 's working in people the same way .

but if you go to santee alley , yeah .

one day we wake up to the news of the desecration of ancient mosques and sufi tombs .

and we sat down , and i shared with him my vision of getting men growing mustaches across australia , raising awareness for this cause , and funds for his organization . and i needed a partnership to legitimately do that .

`` that 's why the white people in africa are called `` '' bwana , '' '' boss . ''

`` `` wash you hands , you might not get diarrhea . '' ''

we 've gone through some tough times and it 's only made it stronger . gg : stronger .

i truly believe , to create women leaders , there 's only one thing you have to do : just let them know that they have what it takes to be a leader .

when people hear us , with the kind of unpredictable ideology , then maybe people will listen .

now what i want to share with you is one of my most touching movember moments , and it happened here in toronto last year , at the end of the campaign .

a photo is a reminder of someone or something , a place , a relationship , a loved one .

and this is a wonderful thing , because it can also help us protect our privacy , and privacy is the foundation of a free society .

imagine the middle east without oil income , but with collapsing governments .

perfect .

it 's code which will be interpreted on the webpage .

in particular , things were a lot denser .

it 's a shape-shifter , for one thing .

syria is intimately tied to regional security , to global stability .

blue curtain .

what is a parent ? what is a parent ?

so that 's what we did here . you see where we were making the test road , and then of course this road will last several years without any damage . that 's what we know from practice .

and these goals are n't necessarily diametrically opposed , but they are at odds .

you see , since the age of about five i 've always asked the question , but why ?

i swear there 's something in there .

they cause none of our perceptual experiences , and none of our behavior .

they also learn to follow other people 's gazes , because whatever people are looking at is what they are thinking about .

because simple answers may emerge .

chris milk : how was it ?

there is very little 20th century technology in them .

no , i have an iphone . of course i do .

they can try it again and try it again , and this really becomes much more engaging .

documents : jelly beans .

and look at this : from the chaos will emerge the solution .

let me tell you another thing we could do .

these are now at a price point of — what used to be 100,000 euros or a couple of hundred-thousand dollars — for about 5,000 dollars , i can have the power of a very powerful diagnostic device in my hand .

in this example , facial expressions are mapped to the movement commands .

the cmus also include some non-muslim prisoners .

in a way , that is the story of the settling of the americas , the supposedly inexhaustible frontier to which europeans escaped .

i am not ready for a driverless airplane .

our poverty rates have n't changed that much in the last 50 years , since the war on poverty was launched .

so exploration can pay for itself .

and at that point the taliban had an air force , they had fighter planes , they had tanks , they had artillery , and we really got hammered pretty badly a couple of times .

and i was giving a talk in 2015 about the suffragettes — i 'm sure you know those magnificent women who fought so hard for the right for women in britain to vote .

that 's like comparing how fast i run to the speed of light .

`` now on the one hand , exhorting us to `` '' drill , baby , drill , '' '' because god put those resources into the ground in order for us to exploit them , and on the other , glorying in the wilderness of alaska 's untouched beauty on her hit reality tv show . ''

and this is a big problem , particularly in hiv patients .

it 's been viewed nearly 50 million times this year .

these risks directly affect the sustainability of this nation and its continuity .

we also need to be wary of new conflicts , new types of conflicts , such as we have with boko haram in my country , nigeria , and with al-shabaab in kenya .

( applause ) thank you . ( applause )

not just about its genetics and molecular biology , but up here in the meat end of the scale .

i did n't know that the first stage in any domestic violence relationship is to seduce and charm the victim .

we created an institution called instituto terra , and we built a big environmental project to raise money everywhere .

we can stand on the earth and look up at the night sky and see stars with our bare eyes .

thirty-five thousand eight hundred thirty lines of information .

let 's open the flap .

and it was my boyhood dream to be a fighter pilot .

this is prometea , the first cloned horse .

so we have greed , we 've got overconfidence/hubris , but since we 're here at tedwomen , let 's consider one other factor that could be contributing in some small way to societal recklessness .

suddenly it was n't here at all .

he thought nature would protect us from their formation .

and how do you avoid that ? well we 've done it before .

and we eventually discovered molecules that were specifically labeling nerves .

the impact for teachers would be phenomenal .

why is she sitting on them ?

i 'm fascinated by graffiti .

is edinburgh a horse ?

not at all a dig at the new york times , this , by the way .

you know , from the user interface of the control system to opening curtains or closing curtains .

now it should be clear by now that this book is in bad condition .

isabel allende : ommm . ommm . there it is .

because you know what to do about the protests .

it has been used to signal early warning in advance of weather-related disasters .

and in fact , we can use data from all kinds of sources nowadays [ to do this ] .

here 's one of the organisms that we caught in our net .

i 'm not sure if this is going to be good or not .

now , unfortunately , that bone was isolated .

in the moment , that 's what he did .

you 've got a cas9 protein and something called a guide rna .

he just wants to wish her a good day , because that 's the start of her day .

say we want to get to 100 gigawatts by 2022 .

there 's another one about personal health and nutrition .

`` and in arabic , to say `` '' no , '' '' we say `` '' no , and a thousand times no . '' '' so i decided to look for a thousand different noes . ''

so i have been walking and traveling , by horses , by yak , by truck , by hitchhiking , from iran 's border to the bottom , to the edge of the wakhan corridor .

cr : it 's a balloon . lp : yeah , get access to the internet .

now , ballet requires an extraordinary level of expertise and a high level of skill , and probably a level of initial suitability that may well have a genetic component to it .

i started with my wife , ryan phelan , who ran a biotech business called dna direct , and through her , one of her colleagues , george church , one of the leading genetic engineers who turned out to be also obsessed with passenger pigeons and a lot of confidence that methodologies he was working on might actually do the deed .

you can see the genetically engineered papaya in the center .

again , the underlying map is the map of world population , but over it , you 're seeing arrows showing how we spread out of africa with dates showing you where we think we arrived at particular times .

because i 'll show you where there might be a few glitches in evolution . okay , let me just explain this to you .

around 4 a.m. , i go to bed in low spirits .

( applause )

here you 're looking at a sciatic nerve of a mouse , and you can see that that big , fat portion you can see very easily .

and other sources of information , as you 're no doubt aware are available about such features , from email interactions , online interactions , online social networks and so forth .

he would n't tell me what happened .

you just did n't want to respond to that person that time .

and on the 21st of september this year , we 're going to launch that campaign at the o2 arena to go for that process , to try and create the largest recorded cessation of hostilities .

and we stopped trying to save these lives .

so what they 're saying is that drug users are consumers too , so they have this in their neural pathways .

( applause )

most of my work is meant to be fun .

the same feeling of being lost and torn between cultures .

too many questions are left unanswered .

it 's all thanks to the use of data and modeling complex systems .

now to be clear , we 're not quite ready to do this .

young libyan women and men were at the forefront calling for the fall of the regime , raising slogans of freedom , dignity , social justice .

we have lots of other really interesting demographic information as well .

and that was played by my mom .

like cyclones coming up toward bangladesh .

we touch every nation . every nation touches us .

em : it was a close call . things almost did n't work out .

and i thought , on that very first day , i better tour the galleries .

do n't panic — do n't panic now , i 'll help you through this .

are these the inevitable and permanent outcomes ?

but what about those more dynamic and unpredictable situations that we now increasingly face ?

this is the last day with the congestion charges , july 31 , and you see the same street but now it 's summer , and summer in stockholm is a very nice and light time of the year , and the first day without the congestion charges looked like this .

`` there i would hear people say my father was a `` '' moudjahid '' '' and that means `` '' fighter . '' '' later on , in france , i loved eavesdropping on grownups ' conversations , and i would hear all sorts of stories about my father 's previous life , especially that he had `` '' done '' '' world war ii , that he had `` '' done '' '' the algerian war . ''

but we live in a 100-percent media-saturated society .

they also change our vision of the world .

the first of these treatments is cognitive therapy , and this is a kind of mental recalibration .

i have a wonderful husband , a wonderful husband who supports me despite all the criticism he gets from the society .

so next time you think about a vehicle , i hope , like us , you 're thinking about something new .

but some people really struggle with that .

we blocked them off at night so that they got no ventilation .

this is how we excise cancers .

you all know what happened .

one of the most important tools we have to advocate for ourselves is something called perspective-taking .

in fact , when i know the data that 's being shared and i 'm asked explicitly for my consent , i want some sites to understand my habits .

in the morning , however , there was nothing to eat .

i love being a police officer because it 's always been a calling for me and never a job .

they 've been killed shopping while black , driving while black , having a mental disability while black , having a domestic disturbance while black .

the marketing is — the message for marketing is — that try to measure what consumers actually do , rather than what they say they 'll do or anticipate they 'll do .

now , the beauty of a soup is that because it is soup , you can agitate it and make those nuclei be distributed homogeneously in the liquid , so that now by looking under the microscope at just four or five samples of this homogeneous solution , you can count nuclei , and therefore tell how many cells that brain had .

and i 've designed those projections to serve a key role , which is to work with the skin 's immune system .

`` because they 're very dangerous . if we set about saying , for example , torture is wrong because it does n't extract good information , or we say , you need women 's rights because it stimulates economic growth by doubling the size of the work force , you leave yourself open to the position where the government of north korea can turn around and say , `` '' well actually , we 're having a lot of success extracting good information with our torture at the moment , '' '' or the government of saudi arabia to say , `` '' well , our economic growth 's okay , thank you very much , considerably better than yours , so maybe we do n't need to go ahead with this program on women 's rights . '' '' ''

three trees together , we create the forest .

we 're now in the era of virtual visits — from sort of the skype-type visits you can do with american well , to cisco that 's developed a very complex health presence system .

i mean , they went to the max for this woman .

the least you could expect is good tv , right ?

here 's some faces on the side of a rock .

why do people instantly resist the idea of associating themselves with art ?

but occasionally , the source of a sound can not be seen .

i think there are better solutions than a world mediated by screens .

we have learned to diary our pain onto facebook , and we speak swiftly in 140 characters or less .

cars have been here for really less than 100 years .

you do n't look at it .

`` thus the title `` '' silent spring . '' '' i 've been trying to pinpoint what keeps drawing me back to the gulf of mexico , because i 'm canadian , and i can draw no ancestral ties . ''

the possibilities that new digital technologies are bringing can help humanitarian organizations , not only ensure that people 's right to information is met , or that they have their right to communicate , but i think in the future , humanitarian organizations will also have to anticipate the right for people to access critical communication technologies in order to ensure that their voices are heard , that they 're truly participating , that they 're truly empowered in the humanitarian world .

that 's what we must aim for in the next 20 to 30 years .

it is an increasingly difficult picture , even assuming the economy does quite well — probably better than it will do .

imagine if we also considered the front end of this prison pipeline .

now , with that in mind , was your quiznos sandwich awesome ?

i mean , satellite imagery is pretty amazing stuff .

again — this time , sycamore — wind-dispersed .

so a student might watch a five- , seven-minute video and follow that with an interactive exercise .

why is this ?

`` so gneezy and rustichini run this experiment for a dozen weeks — run the fine for a dozen weeks — and then they say , `` '' okay , that 's it . all done ; fine . '' '' and then a really interesting thing happens : nothing changes . ''

and about three years ago , i started an exercise in openness and inclusiveness by reaching out into the open-source software community to create new digital tools for magic — tools that could eventually be shared with other artists to start them off further on in the process and to get them to the poetry faster .

i wanted to ask him questions , which he did n't answer .

what ? ( laughter ) that really flipped me out .

forced prostitution accounts for 22 percent of human trafficking .

`` in other words , we create a habitat of happiness . '' '' wow , that 's interesting . ''

and eventually , if you 're lucky , you achieve mastery .

only .

we are going through the darkest moment in our recent history .

this is one of the participatory — one of the participatory models we see coming out of that , along with ushahidi .

i put it to you today that it is this system that is embodied by china that is gathering momentum amongst people in the emerging markets as the system to follow , because they believe increasingly that it is the system that will promise the best and fastest improvements in living standards in the shortest period of time .

bg : that 's exactly the same [ one ] you saw in the video actually .

i love to do synthetic biology .

with eduardo it 's about the expression of nature .

it is n't climbing . it is n't dancing , because its body temperature is actually relatively low .

then 30,000 children in ahmedabad , and growing .

this is what it would look like if you went to the site .

now imagine trying to count every different specific product and service on sale in a major economy such as tokyo , london or new york .

but most important , go back to where we started .

this is the sensory data , and that data is transferred to the devices through the computer .

about a year after i met lu qingmin , or min , she invited me home to her family village for the chinese new year .

therefore you will do well to act on the side , no matter how far into the laboratory you may go , to serve as teachers during the span of your career .

i am still a global citizen .

if you divide this huge archive into smaller subsets where a smaller subset actually shares similar features , then there 's a chance of success .

scientists study how it works , why , etc .

and we can see the density variations of this .

in the u.s. , women-owned businesses will create five and a half million new jobs by 2018 .

and the second ingredient , which would solve mobility , that very difficult challenge in developing countries , in a very low-cost and simple way , would be to have hundreds of kilometers of streets only for buses , buses and bicycles and pedestrians .

i thought i 'd buckle under the weight of responsibility .

now this is something that 's been known for quite a while .

when did the randoms — when did the friends take off and leave the randoms , and [ when did ] their curve start shifting ?

so the trip up is beautiful . it 's kind of like google earth in reverse .

without water , the bacteria wo n't survive .

and so the fates are seldom wrong , no matter how they twist and wind .

there are a million pictures that i could click through here , and had to choose carefully — this is one of my favorites — of students learning , of what learning can look like in a landscape where we let go of the idea that kids have to come to school to get the information , but instead , ask them what they can do with it .

early indications suggest that quantum tunneling can play a role here .

`` `` daily battles . '' ''

because a word is like an archaeological artifact .

i met her in a field , she was ragged , she had no shoes .

now it sounds crazy . but in some places around the world , like scandinavia , you already have that .

( music ) ( applause ) tm : thank you , thank you . ( applause )

it shows very well that eyes can hear , and this is interesting to me because technology allows us to present sound to the eyes in ways that accentuate the strength of the eyes for seeing sound , such as the removal of time .

it 's everywhere .

well , i can tell you that , in the rigid structure and highly competitive nature of the korean school system , also known as pressure cooker , not everyone can do well in that environment .

blood test results are this great source of information .

`` `` '' i already have , '' '' she told me . ''

so what this means is that the user can start plugging in what they want the bricks to do .

this library is about how we consume media in a digital age .

when it saw a period , it knew how to make a sentence sound like it was ending instead of staying up in the air .

it 's often that they do n't know how to take action , or that they believe that their actions will have no effect .

`` ten thousand people every month google , `` am i ugly ? '' ''

in fact , i 've managed to stay clear of hospitals for almost three decades , perhaps my proudest accomplishment .

but there are all these other areas that are these profound , big problems that i know that we can work on , and people are working on them in many different sectors , but there 's this really fabulous group of things with the power of this peers , inc. model .

it had more fans than established media organizations and even top celebrities .

we need to think of intelligence as an optimization process , a process that steers the future into a particular set of configurations .

and plus , i 'm not going to give you any answers .

( applause ) and eduardo . ( applause )

ss : so , then aimee makes it to the 1996 paralympics , and she 's all excited . her family 's coming down — it 's a big deal .

chinese water army refers to thousands of people in china that are paid small amounts of money to produce content . it could be reviews . it could be propaganda . the government hires these people , companies hire them , all over the place .

that 's basically it .

i love his pink little cheeks , his munchkin energy .

it monitors weather data from all the ground stations and optimizes the routes of the vehicles through the system to avoid adverse weather conditions , avoid other risk factors , and optimize the use of the resources throughout the network .

in fact , in the united states , the teaching system has worked fairly well .

sometimes it 's garbage , but the press is snowed .

and finally , there is no society anywhere in all the world that is not changed except by its most exceptional .

and something i realized quite early on was that the chinese language forced me to speak about and — in fact , more fundamentally than that — ever so slightly forced me to think about family in very different ways .

sociologists like me have long explained that race is a social construction .

do you know what i wanted to be ?

and that recognition will sow fear — recognizing the seriousness of the situation .

now , as an artist , a woman , an arab , or a human being living in the world in 2010 , i only had one thing to say : i wanted to say no .

it shows tragically that those people who voted to leave the european union were those who actually benefited the most materially from trade with the european union .

on this debate between driver-assisted and fully driverless — i mean , there 's a real debate going on out there right now .

why do some people go along with it , while others revolt against it ?

the third problem with headphones is this : deafness — noise-induced hearing disorder .

i felt like quiz show contestant was now the first job that had become obsolete under this new regime of thinking computers .

and we found a house with a swimming pool that looked remarkably like rita 's . so we went back to the video , and we had to look for clues that we could cross-reference .

turn to somebody next to you .

`` and you 'll say : `` '' ah , that 's because there is a reason , here ! '' '' dear friends , i already heard all the reasons . ''

ca : so you 've somehow slashed the cost of building a rocket by 75 percent , depending on how you calculate it .

but we do n't just experience them , we show them .

chad , 2 percent .

you have no limitations , basically .

successful innovation is a team sport , it 's a relay race .

actually , they 're all true .

it means you can create alternate chemistries to us that could be chemistries adaptable to a very different planet that could create life and heredity .

well , we also learned that vasari , who was commissioned to remodel the hall of the 500 between 1560 and 1574 by the grand duke cosimo i of the medici family , we have at least two instances when he saved masterpieces specifically by placing a brick wall in front of it and leaving a small air gap .

and i 'm not comfortable with that .

and the result is great comedy that 's also an information delivery system that scores markedly higher in both credibility and retention than the professional news media .

but claiming these spaces for public use was not simple , and it 's even harder to keep them that way .

this is a swimming holothurian — it 's a small sea slug , basically .

and it works — look at these headlines .

( applause ) why do i believe this ?

in protest over this , blogger slim amamou , who had been jailed under ben ali and then became part of the transitional government after the revolution , he resigned in protest from the cabinet .

well , you work with the community .

i am going to tell you how i do it and the most important thing i 've learned .

and that fascinated me , because i 'd been messing around with a camera most of my life .

yes , so i think i 'll invent the wheel .

but it 's the '80s , it 's cool .

sleep is absolutely crucial for recovery .

thank you .

in fact , inspired employees quite often help make sizable profits , right ?

now , speaking of walls , i want to share with you the story of one wall in cairo .

but these objections are now vanishing through advances in materials .

that 's the scale . the red line is obviously halfway to the pole .

`` but i was not really paying attention to the book because i was paying attention the deck and the claim he had made before , `` i will not touch the deck till the end . '' ''

hence our older people are likely to end up living distant from their children and the friends of their youth .

it shows basically co2 emissions around the world over the next 30 years .

every single time , it would take me back to my childhood , when i had a much harder time speaking .

people signed those loans to buy houses , without truly understanding what they were signing .

and so a couple of years back , my cofounder and i were teaching university students just like these , only the students we were teaching looked a little bit more like this here .

( video ) guy : joey !

but there are other problems .

it 's a chemistry experiment where i 've made a crystal garden .

it would be like a near-death experience where you see the light at the end of the tunnel , but it 's a total death experience .

durga , the fearless one .

( kissing ) mw : so kids , this is how your mother and i got married , in a booth in grand central station with my father 's ring .

my tiny humans show me how to live and the hum of the universe fills me up .

and for 18 years , those 57 meters of concrete stayed grey .

public space . this is a good public space .

the opposing council always fight it and oppose it .

these are just plain old molecules , but if you sniff those molecules up these two little holes in the front of your face , you will have in your mind the distinct impression of a rose .

but , you know , i find reading with machines a very lonely process .

i am six years old , and i do n't cry when we leave home and we come to america , because i expect it to be a place filled with rare and wonderful things like bananas and chocolate and bazooka bubble gum , bazooka bubble gum with the little cartoon wrappers inside , bazooka that we 'd get once a year in ukraine and we 'd have to chew one piece for an entire week .

`` ( laughter ) then they 'd say , `` ms. sumner , where did these books come from ? '' ''

i want to look back 20 years from now and see that there 's another liberian girl , ghanaian girl , nigerian girl , ethiopian girl standing on this ted stage .

19 trillion dollars is what we 're going to have to spend .

so taking on morality with a capital m is a huge project .

this is the jaw-dropper .

`` tell the iranians we from israel love you too . '' '' it became , you know , at some point it was really , really intense . ''

that 's nearly 28 percent of the cabinet , and more than many developed countries can claim .

any student i 've had the honor of teaching in my classroom is my kid .

how would we ever learn such a model ?

it 's medical hardware that 's been repurposed as art .

this sense of responsibility for other people 's lives when he was just 17 — and also his guilt for being a survivor , since he had escaped the camp when his friends had not — stayed with him all his life .

well first we heard what 's known as a non-contracted denial .

`` if the shape of the fire is a person with two arms on both sides , as if she was yelling frantically , `` '' help ! i 'm on fire ! '' '' — this symbol actually is originally from the shape of the flame , but i like to think that way . whichever works for you . ''

how can this be ? i mean , i love books . i really love books .

it was calling them out on the effect they had caused .

or you could see the first time the two curves diverged , as shown on the left .

in 1976 , for example , government and industry insisted that the amount of energy needed to make a dollar of gdp could never go down .

`` ca : what would you say to someone or say to americans , people generally , about what we should understand about each other that might help us rethink for a minute this `` '' disgust '' '' instinct ? ''

thank you .

i believe that this voyage of self-discovery is not just for scientists , but for all of us .

`` and even that 's probably an overestimate , because the same people who distributed the nets went back and asked the recipients , `` oh , did you use that net i gave you ? '' ''

so first of all , last week i think it was , i switched on my phone and tried to book an uber and i could n't find the app .

if you can bring in more rats , we can actually make the output even bigger .

and what i found astonished me .

again , i was so confused .

all of the artists that i showed you here today referenced medical illustrations for their art .

and not a farmer like this one , but rather this lady .

we have to find ways to stop these people from taking away the heritage of the future .

look at the kid on the left , and so on .

foie gras and the future of cooking .

the top one , in fact , is walmart on the right .

you got set up at the gramercy park hotel , where you got to drink scotch late in the night with cool , smart , swank people .

we need to reinvent labor organizing .

but there are also limits to what private business can accomplish .

i mean that they were able to start expressing themselves and to start expressing their ideas .

`` i will answer , `` '' my lord ! only to make you happy ! ''

so this is combining the federal level , which is the largest , the state level and the local level .

the european union , same thing .

there are hundreds of thousands of accessible books in the united states , britain , canada , australia , etc. , but they ca n't be transported to the 60 countries in our world where english is the first and the second language .

creativity is essential to all of us , whether we 're scientists or teachers , parents or entrepreneurs .

in negotiations , it comes in the form of alternatives .

and i think that the u.s. military is finally beginning to get this .

the theory of minority influence , proposed by social psychologist serge moscovici , says that even in small numbers , when there 's consistency over time , change can happen .

maybe applied for your driver 's license , tried to do your taxes on your own .

what 's your hope/depression level on this ?

it was the most inspiring and empowering moment of my life .

it 's not very pleasant , but it 's better than getting eaten .

it is incredible how little we know .

i 'm telling you this story because archie cochrane , all his life , fought against a terrible affliction , and he realized it was debilitating to individuals and it was corrosive to societies .

there were some motifs and elements that would come up again later in her life .

so the idea of electronic books is starting to come about .

that day in the stadium , i stood up as a smart coward .

so by definition , he 's lying and should be disqualified .

as a result , everything is happening in crisis mode .

collaborator : i felt really sad when he died .

`` what 's going on in your school ? '' '' you could see the immediate impact of legislation or a hateful speech that somebody gives in a school assembly and see what happens as a result . ''

but i like to pretend that it comes with ease .

but i think it mirrors the messy and unfinished situation we 're all in , when it comes to human trafficking .

the same is true of marketing .

and it was frightening , frightening for us all .

it 's the refrigerators .

they were the ones thrown at george bush at an iraqi press conference several years ago .

now to be sure , the arab world is vast and varied .

we knew it was n't going to be so hard , and we wanted to be the first to build one so we could get out in front of the problem and help protect against gps spoofing .

was it possible to transform this condition in atlanta into the kind of place that i wanted to live in ?

and more , even when we had thousands of people , 5,000 people , we had two people in the h.r . department , and thankfully one of them has retired .

and really , that 's what other organisms do as well .

they lose all interest in the real females .

politics has come to resemble a cynical team game played by politicians , while the public has been pushed aside as if sitting on the seats of a stadium in which passion for politics is gradually making room for blindness and desperation .

now , of course you could n't do that today .

`` do you trust elementary school teachers ? '' '' you would probably begin by saying , `` '' to do what ? '' '' and that would be a perfectly sensible response . ''

hold on ! wait a minute !

real nobel laureates hand you the prize .

today there is a raging debate as to how best we lift people out of poverty , how best we release their energies .

it 's blunt . it 's honest . it 's sincere .

that 's largely true .

but if you have to have an operation , what you really want is a minimally invasive operation .

`` ( laughter ) and he said , `` '' dan , what 's wrong with you ? ''

when i was doing these experiments , in my mind , i was helping science .

today , i want to talk about how we can do that , and why .

we got some interesting results , and those of you tepper students in the back will be very interested in this .

in the developing world it 's much lower .

i use natural reed , because natural reed has a lot of tension in it that i can not fully control .

now this was about building a robotic car that can drive itself .

i just have a flip camera and a little tripod and invested in this tiny little wide-angle lens .

bg : a personal question , and this is the last one .

the second experiment to think about is a really weird experiment that 's been taking place in china .

do n't go and look for carbon , go and look for evolvable stuff .

but this conclusion would ignore a tectonic shift taking place in egypt far from the cameras in tahrir square .

but what interests me ultimately more than the medium in which this happened , is the phenomenon itself .

`` well , under the category of `` '' what 's the harm of silly stuff like this ? '' '' this device , the ade 651 , was sold to the iraqi government for 40,000 dollars apiece . ''

and does any other emotion crack us open in this particular way ?

why do we respond so much to our knowledge of where something comes from ?

but in a modern and complex world , you need models to understand a lot of the risks we face .

`` and he told me that , `` '' this can be won militarily , minister . ''

`` here 's the last one : you 're talking to somebody , and you say , `` '' sorry , got work , got ta go . '' '' but really , you 're just bored . you want to talk to somebody else . ''

`` and then , slowly , all the other people in the room begin to turn toward me and ask , almost in unison , ( voice-over , several voices ) `` '' have you forgotten your name ? '' '' as the chant gets louder , i want to respond , but i do n't . ''

but after that you have the market revolution of the 1980s .

that was recode 's — my organization 's — first code-change campaign .

( applause )

it is the model for all future relationships with friends , with partners and with their own children .

well , it 's true .

there is some science about this .

we were noticed , and everybody cared .

do not forget that groove in the earth called the stream bed .

we 're terrible at models that span 80 years .

they are rating banks .

so the background here is around about 50 degrees centigrade .

microsoft first fought off the hacks , but then shifted course when it realized that actively supporting the community came with benefits .

jh : that 's right . disgust is different .

and an especially important challenge that i 've had to face is the great shortage of mental health professionals , such as psychiatrists and psychologists , particularly in the developing world .

so kind of in those first nights in new york i wanted to die there .

and here 's where those guns come in .

i 'm going to say almost not at all .

we sing .

and that 's just the start of it .

art is about two things in all the major faiths .

it 's a bit complex , and i apologize for that .

and so we went to washington , and we lobbied for the first piece of legislation .

next , use short sentences , because grandma , like anyone of us , if you make very long sentences , she gets to the end and she ca n't remember what you said in the beginning , anymore .

it 's marked by one lip corner pulled up and in .

`` a recent report by the pew center on trends in america indicates that only 10 percent of young adults under the age of 30 `` place a lot of trust in the media . '' ''

there was n't an actual law in saudi arabia .

we can chip away at this iceberg and figure out what it is , or we could just wait for it to melt , i suppose , these days , but one way or another we could get to the whole iceberg . right ?

but while in oakland , i 've really been struck by how much the city of oakland changed as i lost my sight .

and to build a human , you need three billion of them .

to describe this idea , we need to take a journey through the skin , starting with one of those projections and applying the nanopatch to the skin .

and a lot of artists have a problem with this .

and actually , about a year or so ago , there was this promulgation of the idea of google flu trends , with respect to the flu , where by looking at people 's searching behavior today , we could know where the flu — what the status of the epidemic was today , what 's the prevalence of the epidemic today .

and of course , that expansion was deeply implicated in the crisis .

i have much to make me happy and relieved .

we 've got 300 million cases a year and over half a million deaths .

and whereas healthy adults and children usually show big spikes in amygdala activity when they look at fearful expressions , psychopaths ' amygdalas are underreactive to these expressions .

these things happen in all families .

now we 've got momentum . this is the tipping point .

this is nadir .

( laughter ) these are not people you want to have a beer with .

she had thrown them away .

it 's wonderful to be here to talk about my journey , to talk about the wheelchair and the freedom it has bought me .

and then i met this young lady .

can you see bfib ?

( laughter ) hp : ( in chinese ) yr : the only problem with masking it with chinese mandarin is i can only speak this paragraph , which i have learned by heart when i was visiting in china . ( laughter ) so all i can do is keep repeating it in different tones and hope you wo n't notice . ( laughter ) hp : ( in chinese ) ( laughter )

so what can we do to stop coal 's emissions in time ?

importantly , realistic delivery also includes finance , a way to pay .

first , his name is tom .

`` and there was an article written in the new york times , september 2010 , that stated : `` just manic enough . '' ''

and i would like to share one short vignette .

it 's exciting . it 's inspiring .

google earth goes from this view down to your backyard .

there we go . okay .

it 's just love .

the last one is organization and support .

`` he used to be on `` '' the young and the restless . '' '' i did n't actually go on a date with him . ''

your friends have more friends than you do , and this is known as the friendship paradox .

we knew that primates and elephants and dolphins could do that , but compared to bats , they have huge brains .

your wireless network name is so unique that i was able to pinpoint it using data available openly on the internet with no hacking or clever , clever tricks .

let me show it to you .

or the man who decides that he is going to take his life , uses facebook as a way to say goodbye to friends and family .

there was a lot at stake then , and there 's a lot at stake now , and we wo n't solve our problems if we expect it to be solved by a few supermen or superwomen .

i wondered if this was an inevitable outcome , or could we do something about it .

yes , eight kids in my family .

the son 's dead . the father lives .

and then i thought , well maybe i could do something .

maybe .

so personal relationships , i think , are probably the most powerful means we have .

you have time .

and of course , pretty much all of hawaii , where novel ecosystems are the norm , where exotic species totally dominate .

we see ourselves as pioneers of a new frontier , and beyond economic data , unlocking the human story , moment by moment .

using molecular engineering , we can actually design a superweapon that can travel through the bloodstream .

when we started out , i thought i was going to find so much corruption , i was literally going to either die or get killed in the process .

so instead of focusing solely on better and better algorithms , my insight was to give the algorithms the kind of training data that a child was given through experiences in both quantity and quality .

that 's a lot to pack into 18 minutes .

it 's the accusations that are tough .

`` so once those pictures are acquired and the physician has drawn all the necessary safety limits and so on , he selects basically a point — you see the round point in the middle where the cursor is — and he presses this blue button called `` '' sonicate . '' '' we call this instance of injecting the energy , we call it sonication . ''

( laughter ) and so this is constructed out of a heat reflected material that serves to mediate the difference in temperature between the human body and the glacial ice .

how much room is that ?

and then somebody complained .

crazy , yes ?

today , they number in the hundreds , and they 're endangered .

`` `` '' i was an active duty service member at a federal prison . ''

so i always like to say , anyone who is in the replacement parts of human beings would like to have collagen .

`` `` before i die , i want to hold her one more time . '' ''

and i was an artist .

both of these guys were coming from a mathematical perspective , but turing told us something very important .

and just to see the world trade center from bujold 's viewpoint , look at this .

what 's in its universe of attendant virtues ?

i have one slide for this talk .

what does it do ?

one of you make this .

ca : how did it go ?

well when the daf-2 receptor is active , then it triggers a series of events that prevent foxo from getting into the nucleus where the dna is .

it 's because of air quality .

what would be the impact ?

and we went through a variety of worlds .

faiza 's story is just one of hundreds i 've heard over the years , traveling across the arab region talking to people about sex .

are the basics of driving a car learning how to service it , or design it for that matter ?

i was trapped with only my thoughts for company .

( laughter ) november 2005 : the streets are burning .

well that fundamental sense of oneness is lost on us very quickly .

this owner has a pet peeve about bad automobile entries .

the fact that you have failure , that should n't stop you from pushing the science forward .

this was the treatment that he chose .

and also — i think — without psycho-social therapy , and without considering this in all humanitarian projects , we can not build-up civil societies .

today , we know that every cell has a sex .

`` if i had to say something to him , it would be , `` '' be yourself , and do your best . '' '' bg : commissioner , thank you for the job you do . ''

who is the primary beneficiary ?

we need technology as a core organizational principle .

so the surgeon can see inside the patient , through their lens , where the tumor is , where the blood vessels are .

we looked at the threats to these places .

people do n't just disagree in the way that we 're familiar with , on the left-right political divide .

and what is the significance of a detail in a childhood legend ?

a project chartered by the british government known as the review on antimicrobial resistance estimates that the worldwide toll right now is 700,000 deaths a year .

even in the midst of terrible destruction and death and chaos , i learned how ordinary people could help their neighbors , share food , raise their children , drag someone who 's being sniped at from the middle of the road even though you yourself were endangering your life , helping people get into taxis who were injured to try to take them to hospitals .

just what is a hectocotylus ?

before 1980 , do you have any idea how many articles were in the new york times on domestic violence ?

because there 's no copyright protection in this industry , there 's a very open and creative ecology of creativity .

after clean water and sanitation , vaccines are the one technology that has increased our life span the most .

my dad was a high-ranking gang member who ran the streets .

( laughter ) yeah ?

today , more than 100,000 people in all 50 states in thousands of cities and towns across america have recorded storycorps interviews .

because our time is up .

and so how do you get a company to cede control of their main asset back to the users ?

my only weapon was my notebook and my leica .

with complete control of everything the audience can see , moviemakers had developed an arsenal of techniques to further their deceptions .

how else to explain the cultural space occupied by sarah palin ?

there 's no clear backup system that we 've very carefully kept to be independent of the internet , made out of completely different sets of building blocks .

what today we would call hallucinations .

we have algorithms that are smarter than ever before , and computers that are quicker than ever before .

great , here we go .

it 's a whole new dimension to your life and it 's wonderful to have that dimension .

i met humble people .

he 's basically worked the cost to puma .

let me show you one of my favorites .

here 's an example from hong kong , where some kids made a game and then built their own physical interface device and had a light sensor , so the light sensor detects the hole in the board , so as they move the physical saw , the light sensor detects the hole and controls the virtual saw on the screen and saws down the tree .

50 years ago the pressure was for the right to social security and welfare .

let 's start with the hobbies . when you get dementia , it gets harder and harder to enjoy yourself .

i was no longer tied to a set path .

can i do something big and large-scale and insurmountable ?

you can watch them any time you want .

and if you look at california , they use 2,500 buses .

these are movies . they 're fiction .

so together with zeit online and open data city , i did this .

we have drugs and vaccines .

new business is good for everyone .

both of them bring the imagination to life in ways that remind us that all of our bonds in the end are imagined , and can be reimagined .

i was surrounded by this love and the support of people around me , and they looked at me as an inspiration .

africa will continue to rise .

but somehow , it did n't matter about the publicity .

some of us have some denisova in us .

when we measure gdp as a measure of economic performance at the national level , we do n't include our biggest asset at the country level .

i wrote a letter last week talking about the work of the foundation , sharing some of the problems .

there 's a warm , moist wind blowing at your back and the smell of the earth , the wheat , the grass , the charged particles .

we have to go to completely online grading and peer interaction and discussion boards .

he argues that the two great forces of human nature are self-interest and caring for others .

not just these prehistoric humans , but historical humans , indigenous people all the way up until the moment when the first colonizers showed up .

a hundred companies , we can work with .

the industrial era started two seconds ago .

this lets you do it .

`` there is a sunni sheikh , there 's a shiite sheikh , there 's the seven — leaders of the seven major tribes , there 's a christian , there 's a sabian , there are female representatives , there 's every political party in this council , what 's wrong with the people that we chose ? '' '' the answer came , `` '' the problem is n't the people that you chose . the problem is that you chose them . '' '' i have not met , in afghanistan , in even the most remote community , anybody who does not want a say in who governs them . ''

( laughter ) let 's see , let 's see . here we come .

so no ego problems .

at home it sounds kind of anticlimactic .

you write a love letter to me every morning .

ca : but natural gas is a fossil fuel .

society decides when we are old , usually around 65 , when we get medicare , but we really start aging at birth .

if we lost antibiotics , here 's what else we 'd lose : first , any protection for people with weakened immune systems — cancer patients , aids patients , transplant recipients , premature babies .

this is vivienne westwood . no !

a forest is not an isolated piece of land where animals live together .

tom green : that 's a 4chan thing .

and you 'd been acting out of character .

so we 're left with baby boomers by the end of the '90s .

thank you very much .

or about 75,000 jobs .

i 'm going to paraphrase mark twain .

their names will be engraved on the markers that hang above us .

where are the urban sound planners ?

this is a poem about mark antony .

i 'd broken my neck and my back in six places .

guests ? move the moving wall , have some fold-down guest beds .

this is going to affect everything .

and so what we have here is a description of single cells replicating , metabolizing , burning through chemistries .

that 's what defined me . that was my bliss .

chileans have been building with confined masonry for decades .

to escort and land the probe on a comet , this has been my passion for the past two years .

and that seems fine .

visual effects are based on the principles of all illusions : assumption , things are as we know them ; presumption , things will behave as we expect ; and context in reality , our knowledge of the world as we know it , such as scale .

overnight , my inbox morphed into this harbor of heartbreak — a single mother in sacramento , a girl being bullied in rural kansas , all asking me , a 22-year-old girl who barely even knew her own coffee order , to write them a love letter and give them a reason to wait by the mailbox .

this is in a sculpture park in taejon .

we can have both models in our head simultaneously , right , that kind of problem where we 're holding both beliefs together , right , the cognitive dissonance .

in fact , there 's no statistical connection between combat and suicide .

and i 'm sure you have lots of questions , which i very much look forward to addressing over the next 72 hours , while i 'm here . thank you .

they are very dedicated and committed .

the next concern was whether i would walk again , because i was paralyzed from the waist down .

you see , i had become an enthusiast for capitalism , and i want to tell you why that is .

in fact , if you flash them with a camera they catch on fire .

well , that 's a whole other lecture .

( translator ) aicha el-wafi : good afternoon , ladies and gentlemen .

and under these conditions , our bodies can do funky things .

and by the time you 're contagious , most people are so sick that they 're bedridden .

it can move from a fertilized egg to a spat , which is when they 're floating through the water , and when they 're ready to attach onto another oyster , to an adult male oyster or female oyster , in a number of weeks .

( laughter ) i know , i was like this , i was shocked .

so if we add in a chimpanzee here , we will see more differences .

i decided that i 'd continue filming and make another movie .

we 're going to take daily cuts through the network for 120 days .

why ?

there 's a company created by the kazaa founders called skype .

i think pop music , mainly , it 's written today , to some extent , is written for these kind of players , for this kind of personal experience where you can hear extreme detail , but the dynamic does n't change that much .

so at the end , i had a settlement with them .

but did you know that at your age judy garland was pulling down 150,000 dollars a picture , joan of arc was leading the french army to victory and blaise pascal had cleaned up his room — no wait , i mean he had invented the calculator ?

well , it wo n't . it has n't , and it 's not going to , because that 's wishful thinking , and wishful thinking is n't a game plan , it 's procrastination , and we ca n't procrastinate on something this important .

first of all , i could have started anywhere .

older americans are at a big disadvantage in job applications .

this is affordable and can come home with you and , as such , it can sit on your kitchen counter — it ca n't go in your drawers ; trust me , i found that out the hard way — and make your kitchen counter into a monument to design .

it does n't try to produce a heath or a meadow or a rain forest or a kelp garden or a coral reef .

living systems are in constant conversation with the natural world , through sets of chemical reactions called metabolism .

i 'm not talking only about the amazon .

just consider this : five million nights have been booked on airbnb in the past six months alone .

when we put these two probes together ...

i posed a problem in front of them , which was to put on an election forum for their own community .

`` i mean , the joke `` '' one , two , three , many '' '' is kind of right . ''

for every one single neuron , you can actually have from 10,000 to 100,000 different connections or dendrites or whatever you want to call it , and every time you learn something , or you have an experience , that bush grows , you know , that bush of information .

so it 's a really interesting time to be a journalist , but the upheaval that i 'm interested in is not on the output side .

thank you so much for inventing behavioral economics .

geneticists always say , you always get what you screen for .

we just put a blind person in it and we 're done , right ?

is not something that 's the same or fungible among people .

and i 've been on the receiving end of that , and it does n't feel very good .

`` you 've misunderstood totally , '' '' he said . ''

there 's an operator side on the right that allows you to turn , it allows you to zoom in , it allows you to highlight individual structures .

the second is ask questions .

and if the movement is strong enough , that 's , in the best sense of the word , a revolution .

what a puzzle — i wonder why .

i tried on the idea of eking out another two years in washington , or maybe uprooting my sons from their school and my husband from his work and asking them to join me .

at the biology and the built environment center , we carried out a study in a hospital where we sampled air and pulled the dna out of microbes in the air .

and this is gdp per capita on this axis .

if i were to teach at mit two semesters every year , i would have to teach for 40 years before i could teach this many students .

and newton says the wall is going to apply force back , equal and opposite .

in our minds , fish swim by in reverse frantically wagging their heads and we do n't even notice them .

this control of muscle is very , very important , because , you know , there can be reflexes .

we 're not going to ever recreate a whole human in these chips , but what our goal is is to be able to recreate sufficient functionality so that we can make better predictions of what 's going to happen in humans .

so before i talk about what is , i think , the critical difference between lolcats and ushahidi , i want to talk about their shared source .

and it was a device that , in fact , is a model of the sky .

i assure you , this is very tiny . it 's just six microns on a side .

the organ that does all the thinking and perceiving and imagining , of course , is the brain .

when i watched you toweling yourself dry , i wanted to leap and unman you with a snap .

we 've learned a lot .

bats are also threatened in the u.s .

`` `` the barbie . '' ''

so when i was six years old , my sister used to teach ballet to a bunch of little girls in our garage .

it can also solve a practical problem of moocs , the business aspect .

after six days , thomas died in ross 's arms surrounded by our family .

we can see everything on wikipedia .

in the 1980s , as america went through a transition in the reagan period , between the rust belt economy of the midwest to the silicon valley economy of california , that was the end of america .

so for example , what do you see here ?

but we did n't look for them .

not exactly .

all of your financial information is held in digital databases , but your credit card company ca n't just post your purchase history online .

quantum coherence taking place inside a living cell .

when i turned 18 , i lost my best friend to a car accident .

and no one had systematically looked at the wall tissue .

`` it 's no surprise , then , that even at the depths of the private capitalism crisis , president obama said , `` '' the question before us is not whether the market is a force for good or ill . ''

now , the big bang was an era in the early universe when everything we see in the night sky was condensed into an incredibly small , incredibly hot , incredibly roiling mass , and from it sprung everything we see .

this is just one example of the many genetic tricks in the bag of our supervillain , cancer .

so i started to question .

tbp : i 'm teasing .

and i took out a centrifuge and dry ice and needles and tubes .

so using evolution in biology , and in inorganic biology , for me is quite appealing , quite exciting .

we have the honor and pleasure of jonathan and his father joining us here today .

to some i was martin , a vacant shell , the vegetable , deserving of harsh words , dismissal and even abuse .

what silk biologists do is we try to relate these sequences , these amino acid sequences , to the mechanical properties of the silk fibers .

it was all i did .

`` but then i hear people saying , `` '' there is no progress in africa . ''

it 's like , well , you can try that , but the problem is timing .

we also hear about the storehouse of biodiversity .

we started to plant hundreds of thousands of trees , only local species , only native species , where we built an ecosystem identical to the one that was destroyed , and the life started to come back in an incredible way .

actually , we can turn off a gene .

the recent wars in iraq and afghanistan have produced , thank god , a casualty rate about one third of what it was in vietnam .

and then , in east africa , an unpromising species of ape evolved the odd trick of sentient thought .

let 's talk about social psychology .

at that point , we were looking for a fuel that was cleaner , it was cheaper , and it was n't ours though , it was theirs .

hulu and netflix , among other companies , have open vacation policies .

you need to connect it to their lives , hopefully not in a fear-based way , but one that they understand .

so let 's not just think about short-term performance .

jr : the bigger the goal , the more obstacles you 'll face , and on the other side of that goal is victory .

you think that 's cool .

i was 22 , and in the united states , women ages 16 to 24 are three times as likely to be domestic violence victims as women of other ages , and over 500 women and girls this age are killed every year by abusive partners , boyfriends , and husbands in the united states .

it was a child 's lab kit .

at the other end of the planet , antarctica the largest mass of ice on the planet .

this is fascinating . you probably know , some of you , that cells are continually renewed . you can see it in skin and this kind of stuff .

so every tool that we 've ever had in the past has eventually become ineffective .

so , if you could zoom in to a neuron , and , of course , this is just our artist 's rendition of it .

the average growth of our economy is about 15 percent for the past five years .

ships have automation now .

but i knew i would .

i 'm going to be showing some of the cybercriminals ' latest and nastiest creations .

`` they all come up and they 're like , `` '' you know , my aunt 's sister 's babysitter 's dog 's chicken went to china and adopted a girl . '' '' and i tell you what , it like everybody 's got a story . ''

a couple of years ago when i was attending the ted conference in long beach , i met harriet .

the first problem that we 're facing is human health .

pm : is that for appetizer or dessert , mark ?

and that grew to 160,000 students from 209 countries .

it turns out it is n't because of something called film condensation , and this explains that .

our calculation shows that quantum tunneling of the higgs field is not likely to occur in the next 10 to the 100 years , and this is a very long time .

but why has it taken so long ?

he 'd earned a degree in mathematics .

to give you some perspective , uber in los angeles is doing 157,000 rides per day , today ...

i began this sort of personal crusade against the mundane , because if there 's one thing i 've realized , it 's that any career , even one as seemingly glamorous as surf photography , has the danger of becoming monotonous .

i wanted to understand who takes the job .

it 's always wonder , amazement and wanting to explore .

`` feynman says , `` '' from the hypothesis that the world is a fluctuation , all the predictions are that if we look at a part of the world we 've never seen before , we will find it mixed up , and not like the piece we 've just looked at — high entropy . ''

a collective fiction .

and not long after that , he got another request for a copy from the head of the epa in california who used it as part of her presentation at an international conference on climate change in sacramento last year .

hands it over , and then gets some food .

it was leni riefenstahl in her elegant nazi propaganda who gave context to what the family had to endure .

your connectome is far more complex than this because your brain contains 100 billion neurons and 10,000 times as many connections .

it gets a fraction of the attention and funding given to any of those other diseases .

too much information , i think , than you might need .

and so i did .

it 's only recently that we 've strangely begun to forget it .

this is like a small child learning to utter a few nouns .

so where are we headed from here ?

one day i picked up this unexploded mortar shell in a trench , and i had it deposited in a makeshift mud hut lab .

we see light reflected off the moon .

how did it become the world 's greatest economy ?

he 'll let them return to their countries .

`` and i kept hearing this pervasive sentence : `` oh , but things are so much worse now , things are so much worse . '' ''

( laughter ) my wife would n't kiss me for the last two months .

i 've been privileged to see so much of our beautiful earth and the people and creatures that live on it .

she 'd lied about her age .

campaign groups from around the world have come together to work on this issue .

so in america , one of the big — actually , america and europe — one of the biggest ones is world war ii .

for the daniels family , the personal dna machine is like the chemistry set for the 21st century .

what about the indus script ?

but dreyfus was the only jewish officer at that rank in the army , and unfortunately at this time , the french army was highly anti-semitic .

and all of us strive to do both of those things — not all of us manage to .

all my senses are alert and alive in much the same way as an infant might feel — that feeling of oneness .

openness remains the best way to ensure fairness , and pay transparency does that .

and that grows over time dynamically with the threat of climate change .

`` its power to generate wealth and to expand freedom is unmatched . '' '' thus , there 's understandably a deep-seated presumption among westerners that the whole world will decide to adopt private capitalism as the model of economic growth , liberal democracy , and will continue to prioritize political rights over economic rights . ''

we are on a planet of seven billion people , five billion mobile subscriptions .

when the havasupai found out , they sued successfully for $ 700,000 , and they banned asu from conducting research on their reservation .

they did n't find it .

we looked at the curbs . the curbs were throwing shadows south , so we could tell the bridge was running east-west across the river .

what really changed after the ouster of mubarak was n't that life got easier .

they 're my friends and neighbors .

other conditions show people the future self .

almost twice as much sweet porridge .

yeah , they 're super quick , right ?

in most of africa , the cell phone penetration rate is 80 percent .

so that 's one out of every two or three people you know .

we chose uganda not because it 's representative of all host countries .

she was in the leadership in dar es salaam .

and i 've had the opportunity now to ask a lot of altruistic kidney donors how it is that they manage to generate such a wide circle of compassion that they were willing to give a complete stranger their kidney .

rule number one : do n't let your big brother see you do anything stupid .

it looks nasty , like in college when you did n't like statistics .

this is van quach .

we have to recognize that real faith has no easy answers .

it 's caused by our fears .

check out what 's going on .

so we need marine vehicles .

this is one of the iconic images of rosetta .

could we be moving into a world of one personal dna machine in every home ?

'i think someone 's infiltrated my copies of the cases , ' i said .

( laughter ) ka : what does it mean ?

but business has become much more complex .

actually , they solved the problem quite a lot more effectively .

i 'm so excited , i 'm pouring myself into my lesson plans .

a new recipe for trust is emerging that once again is distributed amongst people and is accountability-based .

but they had hustled to feed their kids and pay their rent .

some patterns are real and some are not .

`` people say , `` '' oh , why do n't you go in iraq or afghanistan . ''

4.5 percent is tiny enough to start with , but what that figure does n't tell you is that many of those books will come from countries with strong publishing networks and lots of industry professionals primed to go out and sell those titles to english-language publishers .

this was an animal that basically kept the forest mixed with grasslands across the entire europe and asian continent , from spain to korea .

and you have to remember , these women have survived the worst atrocities of the 20th century .

they can run large-scale data analysis and provide me with a cryptographic proof that shows they 're only using my data in a way that we agreed .

it 's not a fiat currency controlled by a nation-state .

that 's why we must have that long-term perspective , but we must measure the impact over 10-year periods .

i ca n't say that i would recommend it , because right now , the puzzle is so hard and the network is so powerful , that if i tried to mine bitcoin on my laptop , i probably would n't see any for about two million years .

for example , when i studied at graduate school at queen 's university in canada , the prisoners at the collins bay jail agreed to help me .

♫ it took us years to figure out that we was dealing with dummies ♫ ♫ they did n't understand the sound from the bronx , that 's the boogie down ♫ ♫ to huntsville , alabama , there 's no circles in my planner , so ♫ ♫ it was time to make the product , so we hooked up with townsend ♫ ♫ made a deal with john neal , on the road sold ten thousand ♫ ♫ wba , that means a trip to nashville ♫ ♫ festplatte showed up and said them boys are naturals ♫ ♫ can you hear what they were hearing ? see what they were seeing ? ♫

is that good or bad ?

that can take a vaccine that 's suddenly 10 dollars down to 10 cents , and that 's particularly important within the developing world .

and we wanted to do — how can we best alert everyone ?

how do the taliban in your area get people to join them ?

and i wonder if that 's how people in the malarious world thought of those nets when they first received them ?

the deterioration of my eyes shattered the illusion .

so if you stop taking the drug , the protein would go back to normal .

because what 's really in it for the institution is this : now why do people go to the louvre ?

that never changes .

speaking up is hard to do .

so we need something to be able to explain that .

( applause ) it 's really been eight years since that fated night in kentucky .

but what happened when we looked inside the pig 's heart , to the electrogram ?

i think that 's what all this is pointing at .

[ allegiance ] [ very intimate ] [ serious mistakes ] ( laughter ) and tattoos tell you a lot of stories .

it physically carves out conversation space for one .

what do those things have in common ?

and dig at it with our nails , damaging the flesh .

now when we 're looking at solving big problems , we need to start thinking in two numbers .

and people were making some amazing things .

`` and there 's a slight sense that isaiah knows this , because he says , this is god speaking , of course , `` '' i have called thee by thy name though thou hast not known me . '' '' i think it 's recognized that cyrus does n't realize that he 's acting under orders from jehovah . ''

of course , left-leaning policies have also tended to blur the lines between government , ngos and private sector .

what they do n't realize is that , while they 're watching their shows , actually , they are being watched .

so it 's a good lesson for us .

it is a pity in a place that has such rich culture and traditions .

here i 'd like to propose that in the same way we can reconstruct how the ancient greek cities looked just based on a few bricks , that the writings of a culture are the archaeological records , the fossils , of human thought .

we write off half the country as out-of-touch liberal elites or racist misogynist bullies .

so i want to make sure it 's exactly the same bill .

dp : it 's a romantic weather report .

not really sure why they show up , but they do .

was it working in the sun ?

and all of this had been hidden to me , before i had tried to understand it .

who among us would actually say that people read this ?

for me , becoming a city planner meant being able to truly change the city that i lived in and loved .

you can see the river covering that region which , otherwise , would be a desert . and it is not .

it returns to the atmosphere .

so this is a $ 3,000 vehicle .

they need a low deductible , and 24-hour roadside assistance .

rape is not barbaric , but the law , he said , was barbaric .

so there 's a third alternative , and it 's one that increasing numbers of syrians are taking .

well that 's just a matter of mindset .

i mean , come on . is photography awesome ?

we have the right to respect .

if we feel it now and think it through , we will realize we have nothing to fear but fear itself .

and of course , our thermometers only take us back 50 years or so here .

so there is no excuse for any of us here in this audience .

she shares her experience with others .

that 's true even amongst peers .

and the image on the left is the normal red image .

so you have to protect the givers in your midst .

take the armor off . be yourself .

and it 's too cerebral to animate guts and hearts and behavior when the going gets rough .

so in the 1950s , miller-urey did their fantastic chemical frankenstein experiment , where they did the equivalent in the chemical world .

and it was a revelation .

`` to heal , to remember , to say : `` '' we speak a common language . ''

i 'm going to talk about the role we members of society play in this phenomenon , and about four different response levels we citizens have against violence .

and in asia and latin america , the transition started in the 1960s , and it happened much faster because of modern contraception .

bristlecone pine trees live 5,000 years , and some lobsters do n't age at all .

and he asked if i could find a linguistics expert to come up with a different definition of the word bollocks .

all the archaeologists with whom we share your discoveries will take you with them as they begin to excavate them , by using periscope , google plus and social media .

we learn perhaps many things , but one thing that i find sort of important to mention is that i think the lesson is that we have always mixed .

but how would that machine then interact with reality ?

you take it wherever you want to take it , and you can detonate it .

when i was in elementary school , my next door neighbor , he gave me a book for my birthday .

indeed , there are many of us who are n't so sure about the manufacturer .

it 's a doctor who is trying to improve a neurological function through different surgical strategies .

now think about religions , think about organized religions .

actually , i did n't see anyone .

so sean 's going to tell you a little bit about how we did that .

so that 's what i want to walk you through .

instead of bridging the worlds , the two worlds , i felt like i was falling between my two worlds .

and 100 percent were living below the poverty level .

it was formalized and professionalized , but it was restricted to specific roles and generally applied in pursuit of commercial goals rather than being used intuitively , as florence nightingale , blackbeard and ying zheng had done .

but growing up as a child with the books around everywhere , with people to talk to about those books , this was n't a sort of slightly learned thing .

we did not prioritize right .

and that completely blew my mind almost more than anything .

in fact not many of you know that our bread , of course , was not a european invention .

but if you want to go higher and go larger than this , then you might need some origami .

and they 're being made in the most wonderful ways .

but in everyday life , we can forget about it .

so this is a scientific diagram of my brain — ( laughter ) — around the time when i was , when i started watching those tv shows .

( applause ) thank you . ( applause )

my friend bob and i decided that we were going to build this product together .

and when it comes to planets and their distances , this clearly is the right kind of reasoning .

and what 's interesting here is that something else took off along with it : home-theater units .

it can be a place for neighbors to meet each other and to get to know the officers , and vice versa .

when i had learned this phrase , i had an artist over there hear me out to see how accurate it sounded .

so from this experience of my recovery , i want to share four particular aspects — i call them the four c 's of consciousness — that helped me grow my potential mind back towards the actual mind that i work with every day .

`` then as time passed , at the end of almost two years , they thought , `` well , perhaps our father has died . '' ''

the only handwork the physician does here is moving a mouse .

with that capital , solarcity purchases and installs the panel on the roof and then charges the homeowner or business owner a monthly lease payment , which is less than the utility bill .

when we got there , we just went in the street , started talking with people everywhere , and we realized that things were a bit different from the rhetoric we heard in the media .

and i was really annoyed with them , and i thought , ok , i was about to write a strongly worded email , which i can do quite well .

she 's a very serious swiss artist .

so in yellow , you see the different expressions in use in the various countries .

well , when you 're off to work , under the road or under the buildings that you see , there might very well be cellular concrete , which is a very light kind of concrete that 's actually got proteins from bones inside and it 's also fully reusable .

and then they 're going to tell their story in strict chronological order .

`` one woman told me , `` '' new motherhood is hard . it should n't be traumatic . ''

arupa also explained that she is using thomas 's retina and his rna to try to inactivate the gene that causes tumor formation , and she even showed us some results that were based on res 360 .

but i carried on with my work .

but then our leader , pete , set the vision , and talked to us just like we were his new team .

curiosity has also drilled in that red soil and brought up other material .

and when they teach us a lesson , they do it via the body .

a whole gamut of these technologies are being put together .

just to give you an idea .

they felt science had stagnated since the days of the scientific revolution that had happened in the 17th century .

status-driven , conspicuous consumption thrives from the language of novelty .

a foxo is a protein that we found in these little , round worms to affect lifespan , and here it affects lifespan in people .

( applause )

nobody here would ever be accused or be familiar with narcissus .

that there in the desert was a field of sunflowers growing seven feet tall .

after all , the long-playing record was developed in the early 1930s , and now we put talking books on cds using the digital access system known as daisy .

yes , more .

why bother ?

and we lived overseas , we lived in south korea where my dad was working , where there was only one english language tv channel .

you can read the details , but in summary , we can transform our economy .

in 2005 , we had about 38 million people displaced by conflict in the world .

and if you 're in the half-mile radius of where this bomb went off , you have a 90 percent chance of not making it .

`` what am i going to be ? '' '' and i thought about my dad , and i thought , `` '' good god , i 'm so not sue now . '' '' and i kept thinking over and over in my mind , what had happened ? where did it go wrong ? why did n't i understand ? ''

`` through this act of immense open-heartedness , he was to become the embodiment of what in south africa we call `` '' ubuntu . '' '' ubuntu : i am because of you . ''

this is omer farrouk , my brother .

it 's a story about this woman , natalia rybczynski .

you are a hominid three million years ago walking on the plains of africa .

my laptop at home was looking through four potential candidate primes myself as part of a networked computer hunt around the world for these large numbers .

why do n't we just let everybody have access to this data and curate their own collection of ancient knowledge and wonderful and beautiful things and increase the beauty and the cultural significance of the internet .

maybe it 's useful to think back at the old triumph marches in rome , when the generals , after a big victory , were given their celebration .

did you learn anything from that ?

six months after diagnosis , pete was given an award at a research summit for advocacy .

people live there , and they do n't just float over the jungle .

i will show you that they know what matters most in a family , even though their family looks a little different .

i remarried a kind and gentle man , and we have those three kids .

and all of you — we — create this data .

and this extends with an inclined atrium that creates an open-air space in the building that self-protects itself with its own shape from the sun and the rain .

so if you put all this together , what you see is that originals are not that different from the rest of us .

the hours , weeks , months , years , across a continuum — with treatment , without treatment .

this moment right now , when we think about the meaning of imagination , is so fundamentally important , and our ability to take that spirit and to take that sense that there is something greater out there , is not just a matter of technical expertise .

we 've been harvesting propolis out of bee colonies for human medicine , but we did n't know how good it was for the bees .

probably the biggest crisis we had was a week before publication .

last year , apple filed some patents to get blood oxygenation , heart rate and body temperature via the earbuds .

and the chance that some of it is n't more intelligent than ours is also a remote idea .

and so , if you would like me to — yes , you would ?

deception can cost billions .

instead , imagine she is doing it .

now i have n't succeeded , so this is just a progress report , but i 'm here to tell you a little bit about self-driving cars .

but what really drives these numbers , this high morbidity , and to some extent the high mortality , is the fact that these start very early in life .

and i 'm going to create this in two years , and i have .

the more you exercise it , the stronger it gets .

what problems would you solve ?

and so we did .

i was going to have to ask for help .

we put a telescope or a camera in that shadow , we look back at the sun , and most of the light 's been removed and we can see that dim , fine structure in the corona .

in the life that only i see , who i am , who i really am , is someone who struggles intensely with depression .

so leds are fantastic .

we can push it one way , where we can take a vaccine that works but is too expensive and can get protection with a hundredth of the dose compared to the needle .

and so what are those trends ?

there will always be another frontier .

`` a little bit further on in the article it said `` '' a loss that would normally take the ice shelf 50-100 years to replace . '' '' that same word , `` '' normal , '' '' had two different , almost opposite meanings . ''

think about how an individual responds to a diagnosis of a life-threatening illness and how lifestyle changes that previously were just too difficult suddenly become relatively easy .

the same is again true with information .

i saw my first one in '53 .

and then gradually that chips away or changes your category as well .

i 'd never really memorialized myself .

( applause )

for example , sending children to school , parents could earn money for that , or getting their children inoculated or immunized , parents could get paid for doing that .

so this is absurd , right ?

increasing ?

now , already in the case of the brain disorders that i 've been talking to you about , depression , obsessive compulsive disorder , post-traumatic stress disorder , while we do n't have an in-depth understanding of how they are abnormally processed or what the brain is doing in these illnesses , we have been able to already identify some of the connectional differences , or some of the ways in which the circuitry is different for people who have these disorders .

so rather than all of our uncertainties slowing us down and requiring institutions like banks , our governments , our corporations , we can actually harness all of that collective uncertainty and use it to collaborate and exchange more and faster and more open .

so how can i stay passionate ?

we , as i 've said , have got to hit that market , but we 've got to use our heads rather than our might .

i went to some low-caste , so-called untouchable , people , tried to convince them , but it was unthinkable for them .

this is a domain of something that seems impossible , which can actually be done , simply by putting additional constraints .

embracing otherness .

thank you .

they not only handle all the male extroverts , they pick up a few introverts as well .

and i 'll show you what that actually looks like .

and so right now , i think it 's literally true that we do n't know what the consequences of an effective denial-of-service attack on the internet would be , and whatever it would be is going to be worse next year , and worse next year , and so on .

instead of worrying about how many minutes i can spend with them every day , i focus on turning these minutes into memorable moments , moments where i 'm seeing my kids , hearing them , connecting with them .

( applause )

another moon , very similar , is europa .

unfortunately , we did n't have any money and we did n't have any tools to do it .

so these stories together became the herald tribune business cover .

you know , a malignant tumor you extract altogether , and a benign tumor you just keep under surveillance .

now riley 's going to be a big girl in a couple weeks here .

one is not prime .

today , i want to show you a new kind of map .

have a look at the curve .

its rhythmic beauty sometimes moves me to tears .

so it 's never been easier to cheat , and it 's never been more difficult to keep a secret .

she had been strangled , she had been beaten to death by three men , three cousins , on the orders of her father and uncle .

they used an extraordinary algorithm called deep learning .

and there are two key things it 's got to do .

for example : mental arithmetic .

and in many places , they 're there .

so we 're zooming in .

later , while checking my school bag , my mother got hold of my school assignment and immediately saw that the signature was forged .

so clearly this animal knows where it 's going and it knows where it wants to go , and that 's a very , very important thing , because if you think about it , you 're at the dung pile , you 've got this great big pie that you want to get away from everybody else , and the quickest way to do it is in a straight line .

but why is it that some of our common shrubs have spines which seem to be over-engineered to resist browsing by deer ?

quantum coherence is the idea of quantum entities multitasking .

we must keep searching the sky for near-earth asteroids .

and i was paying for this myself , so i asked the translator if it would be ok if i stayed for the week .

and this led to the discarding of the theory that the earth was the center of the universe .

and so it turns out that methane is to titan what water is to the earth .

according to scott joplin , the bands were playing on riverboats and clubs .

and we have to change this .

this side of airbnb really hit home to sebastian last summer during the london riots .

tom was n't an armed lunatic ; he was my boyfriend .

what can we do to improve the lives of the elderly in the u.s. , and to make better use of their value ?

and i found myself sort of scratching at the walls of life , as if i was trying to find a way out into a wider space beyond .

now , i want you to do exactly the same thing i am about to do .

and their work lets us do our work .

and so i 'm going to talk today about four things , really .

and to show you how often you actually meet part of this pig in a regular day , i want to show you some images of the book .

and one was punishment .

tanisha anderson .

microscopy , the standard who procedure , reaches from 40 to 60 percent reliability .

so while we wait for that to happen , let us remember that we have fiction for consolation .

i 'm just going to show you two of them .

he was never right again .

this is the wall , the border wall , that separates san diego and tijuana , latin america and the united states , a physical emblem of exclusionary planning policies that have perpetuated the division of communities , jurisdictions and resources across the world .

or someone who says they do n't like teachers ' unions , i bet they 're really devastated to see their kid 's school going into the gutter , and they 're just looking for someone to blame .

i feel like our civilization works when this is a vast cultural heritage that we all share and that we know without having to outsource it to our devices , to our search engines and our smartphones .

now , you can see how this could be a problem , especially because the government considers so much of what it does secret .

i studied disgust for many years , and i think about emotions a lot .

that 's because there 's never been a good feedback loop in architecture .

and one day , i was thinking about how all data has a location , and i realized that the answer had been staring me in the face .

it 's not a purely visual technology .

and they 'll be able to restore their altars and to worship their gods in their own way , in their own place .

i wish you sound health .

and i found that most people are right in the middle between giving and taking .

now , this is the perspective i apply to my work every single day .

but there 's an even bigger benefit .

i started to have infection everywhere .

when you actually go and sit in one of these classrooms , at first it 's very bizarre .

in rwanda , in the solomon islands .

so the best way of explaining it is to just show it .

by advocating for self-determination and respect for all of us , we can shift society 's reluctance to embrace diversity and start to celebrate the myriad ways there are to have a body .

so what is the chinese zodiac , exactly ?

it can hide in our bodies , undetected , unbeknownst to us , for days , for weeks , for months , for years , in some cases even decades .

so perhaps more dopamine is related to more creativity .

how will we ever get over racism if we keep on talking about race ?

( applause )

i see evidence everywhere of how it works .

`` this means , `` '' i 'm smiling . '' '' so does that . ''

to give you a sense of what that 's like , when my family went on vacation , we had a bus .

open defecation is rampant .

possibility .

it 's a system in which there are two kinds of physicians — those who make mistakes and those who do n't , those who ca n't handle sleep deprivation and those who can , those who have lousy outcomes and those who have great outcomes .

well , i do n't think it 's either . i think it can be both .

and more than that , it 's engendering new kinds of change .

you can see on the microscope slide here , that 's what 's happening in real time .

i do n't understand why we have to accept this as normal .

bees get all of the protein they need in their diet from pollen and all of the carbohydrates they need from nectar .

but networks are not just a scientific metaphor .

in 2008 , i pushed all the theories that i had on story at the time to the limits of my understanding on this project .

but here 's the problem with testing .

behavioral psychology tells us that we take action and make decisions based on our emotions above all else .

i got the easy part .

this is not illegal stuff , this is basically business as usual , which causes climate-changing emissions , which have an economic cost .

as a local newspaper reporter still in high school , i was sent over to the computer lab of the university of illinois to interview the creators of something called plato .

suggest female sources to reporters and editors .

and this is what we see .

so you tell me the size of a mammal , i can tell you at the 90 percent level everything about it in terms of its physiology , life history , etc .

we do n't know how to write those programs by hand , but with machine learning , this is now possible .

it 's my way of helping other victims , and it 's my final request of you .

because when my grandparents were born , they pretty much had their sense of home , their sense of community , even their sense of enmity , assigned to them at birth , and did n't have much chance of stepping outside of that .

but it 's also used to assign a temperature range .

and for a few years , we were the only nuclear power on earth .

`` and i rang sir bob ayling , who was ceo of ba at the time , and said , `` '' mate , we 've got this invitation . ''

i can love jogging .

if we go ahead and we filter by age — say 40 years or less — we see that accidents are actually the greatest cause that people have to be worried about .

and complete silence fell .

jupiter will make a one percent drop in a star 's brightness .

what if instead of verbally telling you about a dream , i could let you live inside that dream ?

another time , after min had already left the handbag factory , her younger sister came to visit , bringing two coach signature handbags as gifts .

in this case , it 's someone who 's very angry because someone looked at his girlfriend or owes him money , and you can find workers and train them into these specialized categories .

let me introduce him .

and at this rate at which we are losing fish , it is a human problem of enormous dimensions , a health problem of a kind we have n't seen before .

you want to laugh , but you do n't know — you 're that politically corrected , have you noticed ?

therefore , the system must be essentially airtight in order to capture air .

`` but there is something you must do . it 's not enough for me to say , `` let 's get more bold science into agriculture . '' ''

i certainly did n't .

they do not want institutional leadership .

how will that achieve anything ?

but look closely , and living inside of this animal is another organism that is very likely entirely new to science .

and so that 's what we did .

in those days , i was living in a fool 's paradise .

`` `` '' persepolis '' '' brought a daughter closer to her iranian mother , and `` '' jaws '' '' became the way in which one young boy was able to articulate the fear he 'd experienced in flight from violence that killed first his father then his mother , the latter thrown overboard on a boat journey . ''

`` people would say , `` '' did you hear the joke about the guy who made a small fortune in the space industry ? '' '' obviously , `` '' he started with a large one , '' '' is the punchline . ''

the first problem is it 's pretty big .

he politely agreed that an appropriate name for the members of the association did not exist .

you 'll get a new synthesis .

so it 's empathy that makes us connect to other people .

now , these caves contain some of the oldest cave paintings in the world .

receipts go down , some spending programs go up , but most of it is not because of that .

but i agree , it does feel a little contrived .

the universe is not only expanding .

he looks like he 's on a stakeout but he does this for many , many , many hours a day .

so , what can we do about this ?

it was a beautiful day .

but where there is crisis , there is also opportunity .

so i 'm like , man , it made me feel bad that they were there , and i told them , you know , you do n't have to do this like this .

perhaps what is more disturbing is that china 's income equality has been improving in recent times , whereas that of the united states has been declining .

how can i apply this in my life ?

that 's cheaper than today 's gasoline , even in the u.s .

( laughter ) i mean , i love the stuff .

how much we 've learned since .

and there are high demands within an education system that is not perfect .

well , i 'm an ocean chemist .

this was all seductive .

so we had to throw everything out the window and start from scratch .

he still wrestled in secret — he had to .

but it 's not even close to sufficient .

but also we 've started to have debates about how the role of the private sector should move away from just being a profit motive and really be more engaged in the delivery of social programs .

you need a model to understand them .

and i was there thinking about what was going on .

and when it takes its place , it sheds electromagnetic radiation .

care to guess who they are ?

`` `` how could 9/11 have happened ? '' ''

expanding globally ?

the reason why entropy increases is simply because there are many more ways to be high entropy than to be low entropy .

nobody believed us .

and the things that they build amaze even themselves .

i believe in time ; very important .

i sometimes wonder .

we deal right now in the educational landscape with an infatuation with the culture of one right answer that can be properly bubbled on the average multiple choice test , and i am here to share with you : it is not learning .

not only did it hurt her , even me .

even rich european countries could never handle such an influx without massive investment .

evaluating egypt on this basis alone , however , ignores the real revolution .

we 've designed this great , easy-to-use , cheap tool , we 're going to give it to you for free .

we 're taking places like this and transforming them into this .

every company i know spends plenty of time thinking about the central question of strategy : how good is our competitive game ?

so the great news is this is an incredible opportunity .

and there 's some basic innumeracy going on .

in a country which had just gone through this wrenching crisis , the vote in the congress in favor of this constitutional amendment was 124 to one .

this is the complication .

you can consciously contract the muscles in your cheeks .

i went to this very proper christian school taught by nuns , fathers , brothers , sisters .

( applause ) sergey brin : oh , sorry , i just got this message from a nigerian prince .

the next one questions that and looks at passive nature , or passively trying to have reconfiguration programmability .

so back in 2013 , we had the first test of a self-driving car where we let regular people use it .

similarly , using a randomized control trial in rural pakistan , atif rahman and his colleagues showed that lady health visitors , who are community maternal health workers in pakistan 's health care system , could deliver cognitive behavior therapy for mothers who were depressed , again showing dramatic differences in the recovery rates . roughly 75 percent of mothers recovered as compared to about 45 percent in the comparison villages .

in that interpretation , by bureaucracy and administration , and they do it beautifully , may i say .

what paper went into that flap ?

an interesting feature of lots of modern smartphones is that when you take a photo , it embeds gps data about where that photo was taken .

the french started bringing down their family size in the mid-1700s .

so what might this look like ?

( applause )

we know that , as it falls in , it gets faster and it gets louder .

so this is a corrugated box and its shadow .

it is n't a place .

you guys have very insecure computers , ok ?

she lives in toronto , and every month she goes to the western union office with some cash to send her remittances to her mom in manila .

`` an example would be in `` '' finding nemo , '' '' in the short tension , you were always worried , would dory 's short-term memory make her forget whatever she was being told by marlin . ''

five hours into my new career , i did the only thing i knew how .

but if you can see this image [ of the network ] from a bird 's eye view , you can appreciate that there 's something very different about nodes a and b .

they 've been killed on the street .

new properties emerge because of our embeddedness in social networks , and these properties inhere in the structure of the networks , not just in the individuals within them .

here 's somebody , what they did as they went through cognitive training at ages seven and 11 .

together , we analyzed the west bank and picked 100 families that are living in the most risky places : close to checkpoints , near army bases , side by side with settlers .

it 's like if you 're a chef and you put it on your menu , you risk being attacked .

that , not something as mundane as making money , is a tribute to your ancestors .

everything i was looking at seemed like it was going to kill me , but i could n't explain why .

it 's a smooth expansion .

it 's a start .

a few years back , i worked closely alongside a european biotech company .

this piece of leather is a mere seven tissue layers thick , and as you can see , it is nearly transparent .

humans have been drawn to honeybees since early recorded history , mostly to harvest their honey , which is an amazing natural sweetener .

but when most of us have bits of time , what do we do ?

wan na play ?

it depends on this river .

we also get to see areas that no one has ever looked at before , and we see these genes turned on there .

it turns out that the natural world is full of hyperbolic wonders .

i want to share the concrete example that i know best , my organization , one acre fund .

so when you shake the chain , it then folds up into any configuration that you 've programmed in — so in this case , a spiral , or in this case , two cubes next to each other .

it overlooked the whole city .

and the light that shone off of her eyes was a place i could have stayed forever .

my fellow psychologists have shown that we 're led by our bodies and our emotions and use our puny powers of reason merely to rationalize our gut feelings after the fact .

what does that mean ? another jargon .

it was the first time the traditional news was usurped by the internet for a major news story , a click that reverberated around the world .

the bop is a type of social dance .

but do you think betzig was satisfied there ?

woman : take a step here .

that right now is the open sewer for our industrial civilization as it 's currently organized .

i stayed inside all week .

that 's the humanitarian mission .

let 's look at the best academic performer : the province of shanghai , china .

and here 's an example from thailand where we found that , because the value of a mangrove is not that much — it 's about $ 600 over the life of nine years that this has been measured — compared to its value as a shrimp farm , which is more like $ 9,600 , there has been a gradual trend to deplete the mangroves and convert them to shrimp farms .

and here 's the kicker : when i have a perceptual experience that i describe as a brain , or neurons , i am interacting with reality , but that reality is not a brain or neurons and is nothing like a brain or neurons .

what newspaper was it in ? what book ?

`` it 's beyond our reach . '' '' and within just 50 years , in his lifetime , with him sitting in the audience , we had designed the greatest machine ever to prove this incredible idea that originated just in a human mind . ''

i loved it , but it did n't work .

so , i apply this sort of philosophy now to everything i do : sitting back and realizing the progression , how far you 've come at this day to this goal , you know .

`` ( laughter ) `` what do you need from me ? '' ''

hello , my name is dennis hong , and we 're bringing freedom and independence to the blind by building a vehicle for the visually impaired .

what would it take to mobilize 100 percent ?

i want to know what is wrong .

`` if someone walks behind , that is `` '' to follow . '' '' as the old saying goes , two is company , three is a crowd . ''

( applause )

but when they were a bit older , they took a little agency and decided to engage .

all of us talk about education just as the economists do now , as an investment that you make to improve the human stock by training them for work .

i was the first . there were my sisters and a couple of other girls , and as i approached her , she looked at me , and i sat down .

they ask us to use them only against the infidels .

in the us , we spend 7 billion hours a year , wasted , sitting in traffic .

we worked together as a team .

we 're going to put this into motion now , taking daily cuts through the network for about 30 years .

i mean , this is really an ecosystem .

so here , the learners are building a circuit with lego-like ease .

thank you for listening .

`` one of the whitopian outlooks that really hit me was a proverbial saying : `` '' one black man is a delightful dinner guest ; 50 black men is a ghetto . '' '' one of the big contexts animating my whitopian journey was the year 2042 . ''

we should not take it for granted to be boundlessly connected .

that 's an opportunity that is given to us .

attention is time .

so the question is , what is the next big idea for this generation ?

and we keep sending more every day .

i 'm a very lucky person .

america has a message for new mothers who work and for their babies .

thank you very much .

but they 've also created — they 've also produced three times the disability rates .

as they created their interactive mother 's day cards , you could see that they were really becoming fluent with new technologies .

the hard : in banks , when there is a problem between the back office and the front office , they do n't cooperate . what is the solution ?

because what i did n't say in my talk is this is actually exoskeletal .

we next invited reporters to have a look at the documents .

we 've turned seven billion only a few months ago .

i 'd like to talk about what i call our warehouses for hope .

let us tell this story together .

and she said it was like a thunderous train of air .

so i decided to go there .

so here 's what we can do .

well , can we guard against such risks by regulation ?

what about people with anxiety issues ?

because , as i said , we live our lives in networks , and these networks have a particular kind of a structure .

who said this so beautifully was mahatma gandhi , 75 years ago , when he spoke about bread .

for hundreds of dollars , i 've developed a system that exceeds the sensitivity of detectors that are hundreds of thousands of dollars .

how many of them showed up for him ?

like if i smoked , i 'd probably just smoke instead .

patrick , debbie and wael are only three examples out of the 1,700 accepted students from 143 countries .

`` as she handed me my porridge , i asked her why she was there , and without hesitation , she said , `` as africans , we must uplift all the people of africa . '' ''

it 's , in short , how we learn what we know about other people and about the world .

they 're controlling who nervous system cells partner up with .

the majority of our functional brain is distributed over the outer surface layer of the brain , and to increase the area that 's available for mental capacity , the brain surface is highly folded .

but beyond the impact of a health condition on life expectancy , we 're also concerned about the quality of life lived .

of course , not all takers are narcissists .

the way forward for us is now to standardize this technology .

our purpose is to make the author look good .

let 's look at the next year , and you can see that that trend is continuing .

what i 'm pitching you today is actually not a stand-alone product .

some of the world 's astronomers have telescopes nearby .

now , you do n't really think that our airplane system depends on the internet , and in some sense it does n't .

it was a little startup we bought .

you charge another inmate to clean his cell .

i do n't know what that means — ( laughter ) but i hope you do .

how about sleep deprivation ?

in 1974 , the great ray kurzweil , the american inventor , worked on building a machine that would scan books and read them out in synthetic speech .

so the physics is you can never accurately and exactly measure a particle , because the observation changes it .

from that specimen that we take from a patient 's blood to detect ebola , we can discard it , obviously .

this is the person who 's nice to your face , and then will stab you right in the back .

could design make that happen ?

and the second thing we should do is understand the genius of our societies .

it 's aptly named .

but do n't take my word for it .

( applause )

`` every time he had a good idea , he 'd think , `` '' that 's brilliant , i 'm going to start building that one . ''

it looks terrible . is it a little hot plate ?

mosquitos . i hate them .

and here you can see us collecting that coral with a vacuum system , and we put it into a sampling container .

it is often said that we fear that which we do not know .

and of course , this task has material dimensions .

they want us to tear open more wounds in our societies so that they can use them to spread their infection more widely .

they never get stuck in traffic . they could even go on a sidewalk .

sebastian and i have forgotten some of that .

and when tension increased , they already had that dialogue , and that was a strength to deal with different issues .

`` it 's dark , you ca n't see which one goes down until the lights come on , and then you an see your impact . '' '' real-time data turns on the lights . ''

it has changed the way we are communicating and basically we are viewing politics .

and they experience them how they did in the body .

i had to let go at the very beginning , and i had to immerse myself in the stories of hundreds of artists and writers and musicians and filmmakers , and as i listened to these stories , i realized that creativity grows out of everyday experiences more often than you might think , including letting go .

he had embraced that mess , and it soared .

`` when tony was 16 years old , one day , one moment , `` '' it was mom 's gun . ''

`` and it was doc watson singing and playing `` '' shady grove . '' '' ♫ shady grove , my little love ♫ ♫ shady grove , my darlin ' ♫ ♫ shady grove , my little love ♫ ♫ going back to harlan ♫ that sound was just so beautiful , the sound of doc 's voice and the rippling groove of the banjo . ''

and it 's a story about a japanese-american detective in los angeles in 1941 investigating a murder .

it 's since been deployed in mexico to track electoral fraud .

so , between coal and nuclear , compare their waste products .

maybe a single individual is misclassified or so .

more than that , i like to buy books on it that i never have to feel guilty about not reading because they go in here and i never look at them again and it 's perfect .

and although the numbers were , and continue to be , extraordinary , what became more extraordinary was how the experience of critical and curious questioning translated into life .

in your house , wires run in the wall , from the light switch to a junction box in the ceiling and from the junction box to the light bulb .

as a teenager , i was sketching , drawing , and i wanted to be an artist .

africa was truly fascinating for me .

they 're the only ones that are dangerous .

meanwhile , my mind began knitting itself back together .

now smile to go straight .

♫ my vocal cords movin ' , ♫ ♫ at speeds slightly faster than sound . ♫ ( applause )

so for this , we developed many different types of non-visual user interface technology .

and he 's teaching her how to browse .

so , after coming to london , i did eventually resume my music career .

so it 's a tree , and in its trunk you have the roots of languages .

and still , you may not see the branches .

so what i 'm aiming for here is saying something about how understanding and changing your perspective are linked .

`` amy winehouse said , `` '' nelson mandela and i have a lot in common . ''

( laughter ) for those of you with kiddos at home , how would you like to have the wireless diaper that supports your ...

now the first part of this that we need to think about and we need to process our existence , our life , immediately and repeatedly .

and going to school , that 's not a goal , it 's a mean .

but why ?

why is it one-dimensional ?

and then i moved to the biotechnology industry .

anyone can kill me , or you , or you .

the choices do n't make sense , because it 's the wrong question .

there 's a certain style of parenting these days that 's getting in the way .

this whole finding compassion and common ground with your enemies thing is kind of like a political-spiritual practice for me , and i ai n't the dalai lama .

we are the first generation which is in a position to do this .

and we have 30 million years worth of fusion fuel in sea water .

`` `` '' nothing to lose '' '' is a work made in collaboration with performers of size who drew from their lived experiences to create a work as varied and authentic as we all are . ''

so we all have our own biases .

hard power is there , and it will remain .

we had to change it .

this looks nice .

after all , online course content has been available for a while .

in india , it is unfortunately only the women who carry water .

if you pick your kid up more than 10 minutes late , we 're going to add a 10 shekel fine to your bill .

`` today we hear people actually saying things like , `` '' there 's a problem in this country , and it 's called muslims . ''

under the warped logic of fear , anything is better than the uncertain .

let me put it this way : forget about the lhc for a second .

( laughter ) i found him on the internet when i was looking up a reference .

the first stage in a technology 's advance is that it 'll fall below a critical price .

it 's an umbrella of air all across it , and that layer of air is what the water hits , the mud hits , the concrete hits , and it glides right off .

so i left them for a couple of months .

and not relating to people starts at a very early age .

so there are two really interesting questions here , it seems to me .

so i started thinking : if i could involve you , the audience , more , i might be able to make you feel something more as well .

in fact , here 's my calculator .

i have another idea .

mrs. lois doery , whom i later came to call my surrogate mum , read me many thousands of hours onto tape .

obama has suggested 300 million dollars in the u.s. budget for these kinds of ideas and structures to move it forward , and a lot of other countries are demonstrating considerable interest .

and we went back to google maps , and we looked a little bit closer , and sure enough , there 's the white lilo , there are the two trees , there 's the umbrella . it 's actually folded in this photo .

we found absolutely no correlation , no impact whatsoever , between these two variables .

it is rather what is swallowed up and sacrificed in the name of the god of love , or rather in the name of seduction capital .

and we learn and adapt the program accordingly .

forced labor does occur in many industries , especially those where the workers are migrants or otherwise vulnerable , and this needs to be addressed .

and what seems to have happened here is that the indus traders , the merchants , were using this script to write a foreign language .

and you can always walk .

my colleagues in parliament include , in my new intake , family doctors , businesspeople , professors , distinguished economists , historians , writers , army officers ranging from colonels down to regimental sergeant majors .

exploitation is the opposite .

and egyptian activists are assuming that these technologies for surveillance are still being used by the transitional authorities running the networks there .

lurching a little , but it 's building .

there 's a couple of other contenders , especially everyone always thinks of the nsa .

they last for about five miles , in which case we put our foot back on the pedal .

most of you see a barbershop , but i see an opportunity : an opportunity for health , an opportunity for health equity .

we collect the seeds and germinate saplings out of them .

thanks .

and in fact , if you could do that , what you would see is something like this .

this is how you hold the needle .

so it goes in and it stays there .

ca : so , you and your team brought together today an amazing group of speakers to whom we 're all grateful .

it 's one of the things that we do n't like to think about , but the fact that religious icons and good luck charms show up on dashboards around the world betrays the fact that we know this to be true .

three-fourths of our oil fuel is transportation .

i think it 's a team sport .

in the center , we have a porous , flexible membrane on which we can add human cells from , say , our lungs , and then underneath , they had capillary cells , the cells in our blood vessels .

i have friends in the navy who tell me they sail with 1,000 sailors at a time , but on kendal there were only 21 crew .

second iteration is the cryptic wetsuit , or the one which attempts to hide the wearer in the water column .

and finally , after susan cain 's wonderful tedtalk in february , we know that introverts find it very difficult to relate when they 're in a noisy environment doing group work .

you find muscular tubes , modified legs , modified fins , as well as the mammalian fleshy , inflatable cylinder that we 're all familiar with — or at least half of you are .

all knowledge of the english language and the english alphabet has been lost .

`` and these are the so-called `` '' developing '' '' countries . ''

this river flows invisibly above us .

and that was just luck .

that morning , we left at about 5 a.m .

i 've often wondered : what was he thinking ?

learning will increase the production of these new neurons .

this motor has enough power to take you up the hills of san francisco at about 20 miles per hour , about 30 kilometers an hour , and this battery , this battery right here has about six miles of range , or 10 kilometers , which is enough to cover about half of the car trips in the u.s. alone .

we were passing by a bus stop .

miraculously , as we asked these questions and started giving attention higher up the pyramid , what we found is we created more loyalty .

we 've invented supercomputers that fit into our pockets and connect us with anybody on the planet .

we spend so much time in this culture being driven and aggressive , and i spend a lot of time being those things too .

`` but as edgar woolard , who used to chair dupont , reminds us , `` '' companies hampered by old thinking wo n't be a problem because , '' '' he said , '' '' they simply wo n't be around long-term . '' '' i 've described not just a once-in-a-civilization business opportunity , but one of the most profound transitions in the history of our species . ''

you can see how it would produce anomalies in the data such as uneven , unnatural looking dips .

but it started with some practical problems .

the short story was about my life as a competitive swimmer and about my crappy home life , and a little bit about how grief and loss can make you insane .

they can be with words or without words .

there were two big reasons why our campaign had failed big time .

it is a beautiful cemetery in cambridge .

but the problem is , how do you decide who is in power to make these decisions and how do you make sure that they do not abuse their power ?

we have n't yet gone to mars . we have n't yet gone to another planet .

fast-forward more than two decades : apple launches the iphone in china and censors the dalai lama out along with several other politically sensitive applications at the request of the chinese government for its chinese app store .

just to be clear , i think computers can really help with this problem , actually make it more conceptual .

it 's because they wanted to be first .

do you see me up on the screen ?

but it is not only about me .

who are these people ?

where there 's really been uptake even faster is in the international environment , where there 's a 55-percent drop in the first neighborhood in puerto rico , where interruptions are just beginning in honduras , where the strategy has been applied in kenya for the recent elections , and where there have been 500 interruptions in iraq .

and i hope i have convinced you of the value of dental calculus .

and if i took that journey , no matter whether it failed or succeeded , it would be completely irrelevant .

now , why do we use — add on , nearly , an epileptic focus ?

and my claim is that mathematics has to do with patterns .

so i look back at this photograph .

the overall time that we have for our narrative , our lifespan , has been increasing , but the smallest measure , the moment , has shrunk .

but we still have more work to do .

i 'd seen a lot of death , in particular epidemic death , and epidemic death has a different feel to it .

the same is true if we look at a chinese individual versus an african , the neanderthal will match the chinese individual more often .

but he did n't use new parchment , he used parchment recycled from earlier manuscripts , and there were seven of them .

and when i meet the mothers in so many of these remote places , i 'm really struck by the things that we have in common .

that people who engage in violent jihadism , that people who are drawn to these types of extremisms , are not that different to everyone else .

it 's just a still taken out of that first piece of footage that i showed you .

i think , while i 'm enjoying my life as a happy musician , i 'm earning a lot more recognition than i 've ever imagined .

well , unlike a normal album , we have n't been able to accommodate this request .

i wo n't bore you with all the details of all the instruments , but it 's got everything .

the present joins a flow of time from before and after .

we should work like our mothers .

here 's why : evolution always wins .

`` you could say to a principal , `` '' you 're having a problem every thursday at three o'clock . ''

he wrote what would later be known as the bible of pain .

i was out with a team . it was the end of movember .

and if we can eventually get good solar in space , that also could help .

okay let me do this differently . is anybody preferring the wonderbread at all ?

remember the books and the trip to the farmer ?

he insisted , no embalming , no open coffin , no funeral .

so you ca n't put them the wrong way .

`` so with deep humility , and for your approval , we present `` '' cloudburst . '' '' ( applause ) ( piano ) [ the rain ... ] [ eyes of shadow-water ] [ eyes of well-water ] [ eyes of dream-water . ] [ blue suns , green whirlwinds , ] [ birdbeaks of light pecking open ] [ pomegranate stars . ] [ but tell me , burnt earth , is there no water ? ] [ only blood , only dust , ] [ only naked footsteps on the thorns ? ] [ the rain awakens ... ] [ we must sleep with open eyes , ] [ we must dream with our hands , ] [ we must dream the dreams of a river seeking its course , ] [ of the sun dreaming its worlds . ] [ we must dream aloud , ] [ we must sing till the song puts forth roots , ] [ trunk , branches , birds , stars . ] ''

there 's a blade here that 's going to cut across a section of the tissue and transfer it to a microscope slide .

because they already know what she looks like .

we had to wait now and see what happened .

this is good for the atmosphere .

this is a very complex challenge , and i believe developing countries could take the lead in this transition .

thank you .

and i 'd like to make a metaphor , but i do n't have one really .

truth number one about lying : lying 's a cooperative act .

i can watch that and that can tell me something about how it is that they 're moving .

this is the poison that will actually end the tumor cell 's life .

now these traffic figures are really exciting and a little bit surprising and very useful to know , but i would say that the most surprising slide here i 'm going to show you today is not this one . it 's this one .

i heard just recently from a colleague that they 've taken it up in somalia .

writing books is my profession but it 's more than that , of course .

and it 's gone a long way . we published 10,000 copies .

in tanzania — the numbers do n't lie — 45 percent of people — t.b . patients — get diagnosed with t.b . before they die .

we 're aware of this anyway even in our common experiences or our newspaper stories of the spread of violence from fights or in gang wars or in civil wars or even in genocides .

and i sprinted home , and i did n't fall , and i did n't crash .

so all we need is one finger . just wipe off and we see the elephant . ( applause ) ( applause ) okay ? and then if we want , we can continue the scroll to find out , for example , on the staircase , the whole iconography is going to be changed . there are a lot of laymen reconstructing from the ruins of an old temple a new temple , and there are a lot of figures showing up . see ?

well , in the book , i argue that these are , in fact , non sequiturs .

i started with small images , i started with a few miles .

that 's absolutely the right thing , for people to follow their self-interest .

and so those of you in this audience who have helped build those applications and those platforms , as an organizer , i say , thank you very much .

let 's each and every one of us change the way we talk and compare ourselves to other people .

it must come from the ocean floor .

i want to talk about the implications of that for the whole world .

you can not talk to everybody all the time .

so what about with our approach , adding the code ? and you can see that it 's much better . not only can you tell that it 's a baby 's face , but you can tell that it 's this baby 's face , which is a really challenging task .

at the same time , we 've got to do everything we can to keep guns out of the hands of criminals and the dangerously mentally ill .

this creates the conditions for prosperity for potentially billions of people .

no limitations .

dude , you go to riker 's island academy .

it 's really not that hard to make reasonable predictions about where a car 's going to be in the near future .

it does n't really matter .

we made a lot of trips , financed development , economic projects in africa with the world bank .

and that 's ok .

these blue and red cells are called doublecortin-positive cells .

you can see my little video there conducting these people , alone in their dorm rooms or in their living rooms at home .

you can understand exactly what the benefits are .

but there are things we might have to let go of , fellow citizen , starting with our own cherished versions of reality .

as : and that 's the first story lesson i ever learned .

and to stop it crashing over the last two to three decades , we 've expanded the money supply , expanded credit and debt , so that people can keep buying stuff .

what would that look like ?

and my suggestion is that fashion might be a really good place to start looking for a model for creative industries in the future .

it 's not the worst thing in the world .

you 're one of the few people in a position to really swing the debate .

the moon .

these brainy primates were not particularly fast or strong .

because i 'm not really comfortable just helping that girl with counseling and referrals .

that 's 30 feet away .

and i 'd be listening .

but he found this wild plant called the lupin bush .

you know another way to find 32 minutes to exercise ?

now those are important skills that are n't just relevant for coding .

but technology is producing one modern trend that i find particularly important .

the third number is 12 : that 's the number of cities in the world that had a million or more people when my grandmother was born .

so four-thirds is in the sphere . it 's the volume of the sphere .

in sub-saharan africa , for instance , 85 percent of roads are unusable in the wet season .

and so we 're not looking ahead .

ca : boys and girls watching , study physics .

`` give him to the army . we 'll never see him again . we 'll never see him again . '' '' so they shipped me off to the army , and lo and behold , many years later , i 'm considered one of the greatest sons the city college of new york has ever had . ( laughter ) so , i tell young people everywhere , it ai n't where you start in life , it 's what you do with life that determines where you end up in life , and you are blessed to be living in a country that , no matter where you start , you have opportunities so long as you believe in yourself , you believe in the society and the country , ''

there are fairly effective teachers in a narrow set of places .

second doctor : and good , just take it nice and slow , jake .

it 's the history of what we eat today .

on the train home , she gave me a present : a coach brand change purse with brown leather trim .

gooseberry owned a patent for the creation and distribution of news releases via email .

and this gap was finally filled by an enhanced version of the big bang theory .

thank you ted . thank you .

`` and actually , without knowing it , my father had invented something we can find in every schoolchild 's pencil case : the so-called `` '' correction pen . '' '' ( applause ) but it was only the beginning . ''

this is lincoln meadow .

so i think in terms of the fact that math has been liberated from calculating .

my existence was tortured by monotony , a reality that was often too much to bear .

this is very close to what these computers are all actually doing .

at this point , i became a little concerned .

so it was n't all the good side of the illness .

it 's really hard to provide perspective on the vastness of these things , but you can think of it this way .

`` `` '' why is this so hard ? '' '' you may ask . ''

you go on vacation . ( laughter ) you come back from vacation .

ss : i normally talk about language .

and you can think about those as height , width and depth .

and i hope many more people will join me .

we meet up with someone we swiped right to be matched with .

so life had to change .

it was a thick forest .

so let 's look at the other end of the spectrum : our cities and megacities .

db : yes . of course . i love you .

behind the lean-to was a dump , maybe 40 feet square with rotting apple cores and balled-up aluminum foil , and a dead sneaker .

i want to read to you from this poem .

so we started talking about climate change .

all this cog wheel mechanism here is doing is what a computer does , but of course you need to program this thing , and of course , babbage used the technology of the day and the technology that would reappear in the '50s , '60s and '70s , which is punch cards . this thing over here is one of three punch card readers in here , and this is a program in the science museum , just not far from here , created by charles babbage , that is sitting there — you can go see it — waiting for the machine to be built .

until biofabrication is better understood , it is clear that , initially at least , more people would be willing to wear novel materials than would be willing to eat novel foods , no matter how delicious .

so those are the things that we are not doing right .

`` a range of explanations may be popping into your mind by now , like `` '' greed . '' '' this is a popular explanation , and there 's lots of truth to it , because taking big risks , as we all know , pays a lot of money . ''

the documents which received the most attention were private emails that had maximum public embarrassment value .

so if we want to be able to prevent epidemics like ebola , we need to take on the risk of investing in vaccine development and in stockpile creation .

and , you know , a knock-off is never the same as an original high-end design , at least in terms of the materials ; they 're always made of cheaper materials .

`` i had no sense of how he was reacting to this , and after he looked at this reenactment , he turned to me and he says , `` is there anything else you want me to look at ? '' ''

we can learn from this .

so we put all this together and it leads to very exciting opportunities .

our chinese ancestors constructed a very complicated theoretical framework based on yin and yang , the five elements and the 12 zodiac animals .

and be able , on a large scale , to monitor an impending epidemic with very minimal input from people .

to dispose others to engage in the same practices .

tom cruise supposedly owns this bed .

now that education you would receive , and thanks to the british acoustician adrian james for those simulations . the signal was the same , the background noise was the same .

exploitation is about making our trains run on time .

jc : david was n't ashamed of who he was .

and that 's one way that we try to time technology trends .

last year he traveled to sierra leone .

and there 's this mental delight that 's followed by the physical response of laughter , which , not coincidentally , releases endorphins in the brain .

( applause )

and let me just tell you a little bit of how that came about .

but it 's not the only problem .

so nuclear fusion is our energy future .

and this is where things get a bit difficult .

but the thing is , atomico had never voted .

and i watched my own young grandchildren now come along and they 're , much to the distress of my children , they are acting just like we did . you know ? you imprint them .

if you ca n't hear somebody talking to you in a loud voice , it 's too loud .

we can envision two hypotheses : the first one consists of betting that this process of narcissistic capitalization will intensify .

the green school effect — we do n't know what it is .

you see an operator , a trained african with his rats in front who actually are left and right .

paper maps are becoming obsolete .

i was on the subway yesterday with this mail crate , which is a conversation starter , let me tell you .

and we 've talked a lot about that .

nothing is automatic .

not quite .

that was the last month for the year of the horse .

it was all over the papers .

but it does n't have to be this way .

it 's a 27-kilometer tunnel on the border of france and switzerland buried 100 meters underground .

travis kalanick : thank you .

the reason they settled out is because it 's cheaper to settle than to fight the lawsuit — clearly , two million dollars cheaper in some cases , and much worse if you actually lose .

but why are there so many orphans in europe when there has n't been a great deal of war or disaster in recent years ?

as mice get older , like us humans , they have memory problems .

and these technologies were very promising , but the problem was that they were either inefficient , or they were difficult enough to use that most scientists had not adopted them for use in their own laboratories , or certainly for many clinical applications .

thank you so much . ( applause )

they 've been around for decades .

`` because this can be taken for advertising , and because of the law , it has to be taken down . '' '' but tell me , advertising for what ? ''

but in fact that does n't change people 's minds at all .

these will be augmented by a whole suite of tools actually in the home now .

it 's a very difficult subject .

so what can we do ?

there are good liars and bad liars .

so i 've got a question for you .

the moon has moved in front of the sun .

what were those things that allowed us to hide this ?

this girl happened to be the only girl in the entire village who had made it to the ninth grade .

those are nearly extinct .

`` look , you go into a place that 's failed kids for 50 years , and you say , `` '' so what 's the plan ? '' '' and they say , `` '' we 'll , we 're going to do what we did last year this year . '' '' what kind of business model is that ? ''

and i 'll leave you with these words from goethe .

they are not meant to stay .

so that today , the people living outside africa have about two and a half percent of their dna from neanderthals .

which leads us to conclude american businesses fail faster than americans , and therefore american businesses are evolving faster than americans .

they were n't exactly worthless , but they were nothing close to the actual value , because almost no one they knew wanted to buy one , or knew how much it was worth .

so now , when it 's important for us to be able to recall what it was that we experienced , we have an incomplete , we have a partial store , and what happens ?

so what are we going to do about this ?

now males have been observed to prod the female 's genital opening prior to copulating with her , and in what i have lovingly termed the magnum , p.i . hypothesis , females are overwhelmingly more likely to be found with males that have these fish mustaches .

we 'll make a new film about this process .

the total width of it is 600 times smaller than the width of a decimal place .

`` and aicha started , and she said , `` '' i do n't know if my son is guilty or innocent , but i want to tell you how sorry i am for what happened to your families . ''

they 're typing their program into the browser , and you can see they did n't get it quite right , lady liberty is still seasick .

`` and that night , daniel tells us , at the height of the festivities a hand appeared and wrote on the wall , `` '' you are weighed in the balance and found wanting , and your kingdom is handed over to the medes and the persians . '' '' and that very night cyrus , king of the persians , entered babylon and the whole regime of belshazzar fell . ''

and ok , what about online dictionaries , right ?

bill gates .

for example , now we can begin to explore what happens when we put a drug like an aerosol drug .

but it is ok .

so 11 billion tons is twice that .

( laughter ) all right . so what happened ?

that was essential for advancing treatment for hiv in the late 1980s .

what i thought i 'd do is , i 'd make a ted premiere .

this is a family of gibbons .

there 's detailed information on how to assemble a nuclear weapon from parts .

however , you notice , since empty space gives off radiation , there 's actually thermal fluctuations , and it cycles around all the different possible combinations of the degrees of freedom that exist in empty space .

but if you charge 60 cents a mile , you 're a criminal .

although i was a satellite engineer , i had n't thought about using satellite imagery in my work .

she 's getting ready for the week ahead at school .

she would take me to art classes , and not just one or two .

it 's that the right question to ask is , why do we humans find ourselves in a universe with a particular amount of dark energy we 've measured instead of any of the other possibilities that are out there ?

and basically it 's all evolved to handle its food source , which is dung .

weather is an amalgam of systems that is inherently invisible to most of us .

and i did n't expect to get an answer from google , because of course they 've been so secretive , they did n't answer of my questions , and so i just put it up and said , well , i guess we 'll never know .

he erased all of their texts , and then he cut the sheets down in the middle , he shuffled them up , and he rotated them 90 degrees , and he wrote prayers on top of these books .

they would bring a big piece of bread , a bowl of soup , and a candle .

and in hiring or promotion or annual raise discussions , an employer can use that secrecy to save a lot of money .

your kids are easy to train .

this takes energy , producing clean water .

these children matter .

one enzyme can activate a thousand of these chemical reactions in an hour .

step three : the taliban want these children to hate the world that they currently live in .

he blew himself up , killing six .

and in a lot of ways , this is how you would master a lot of things in life .

but it 's going to be here .

thank you .

so dimitri 's now going to use — he 's used his hand ; he 's used his body .

in fact , when i travel to the developing world , coke feels ubiquitous .

`` my attorney said , `` '' nah , no chance of that working . '' '' it came back signed . ''

i just put it up because that little blue dot is the sensor .

it 's an ... iphone . iphone .

i did n't know a single person .

with that you can actually trigger aid funding before a crisis can happen .

`` here 's a poster designed by one of the students under the theme `` '' education is a right . '' '' some logos designed by my students . ''

this is clearly not true . for one , with puzzles , the manufacturer has guaranteed that there 's a solution .

my mother was originally supposed to lead this trip .

[ they 've ] sequenced approximately equally [ as ] many people in europe and in china .

but the effect of that presentation is , it appeals to sympathy .

not only that , we are providing a short-term-to-long-term ddos service or scheduled attack , starting five dollars per hour for small personal websites to 10 to 50 dollars per hour .

( applause ) over time , more photos came in , thankfully , and more retouchers were needed , and so i reached out again on facebook and linkedin , and within five days , 80 people wanted to help from 12 different countries .

twenty-five years ago , scientists at cern created the world wide web .

well , when we went inside schools , we found something completely different .

it 's sort of the good old , traditional form of terrorism , but it 's sort of been packaged for the 21st century .

is it the zetas ? the drug traffickers ? the government ?

the same-sex perspective helps us see that juggling work and family are not women 's problems , they 're family problems .

the first one was miniaturization .

the news went viral around the world .

now , if we bring it back to deception , there 's a couple of take-away things here .

what we did at wired was we went , and i got our graphic design department to re-imagine these lab reports .

my father watched , benevolently , of course , the demonstrations of the month of may , but his heart was elsewhere , and so was his time because he had over 15 countries to serve .

that bothers me the most .

what we 're going to do now is shade the sun with a board and then move the sun with a mirror to a completely different position .

let 's get personal . i wo n't ask who here 's had a colonoscopy , but if you 're over age 50 , it 's time for your screening colonoscopy .

and there is a kind of heroic resilience , a kind of plain-spoken pragmatism to those who start their day at 5 a.m .

and you know what , they come to admire the drill sergeant and they never forget the drill sergeant .

when you present those to people who are not well-versed in those aspects of science and that , they become salamanders in the noonday sun . it 's like talking about the tangent of the visual angle , all right ?

but this feeling of inequality would get even more complex .

the victim 's brain releases oxytocin , and you 're opening up your wallet or purse , giving away the money .

but when i came back to it , i had all sorts of new ideas .

the ocean contains most of the exchangeable heat on the planet .

that night began my formal relationship with death — my death — and it also began my long run as a patient .

so we are 99 percent of the way there on this goal and we 're about to run short of money .

groups that are trying to help sex workers protect themselves against hiv and other occupational hazards , and ngos that are helping unwed mothers like faiza find a place in society , and critically , stay with their kids .

as china plays such an important role in the global economy and geopolitics , the decisions made based on the zodiac and other chinese traditions end up impacting everyone around the world .

quantum tunneling takes place all the time ; in fact , it 's the reason our sun shines .

it is transparent , made just for you .

they 're providing the pollination insurance alongside our honeybees .

one that we [ see ] here , masaccio , the church of santa maria novella in florence , so we just said , well maybe , visari has done something like that in the case of this great work of art by leonardo , since he was a great admirer of leonardo da vinci .

and i heretically suggested it could go down several-fold .

this is why his majesty the king started bhutan for life .

but math is math , and we can play around with our math however we want .

those are awesome neighbors .

essentially it 's propaganda .

now , think about how this can change people 's lives .

we tend to stereotype victims as grisly headlines , self-destructive women , damaged goods .

let me explain with a bit of amateur neuroscience .

and she 's a role model for her daughter and other latinas .

before we knew each others ' names , or anything , we had embraced and wept .

but how is it that we can start to think about using choreographic thinking , kinesthetic intelligence , to arm the ways in which we think about things more generally ?

i went to afghanistan in 2005 to work on a financial times piece , and there i met kamila , a young women who told me she had just turned down a job with the international community that would have paid her nearly $ 2,000 a month — an astronomical sum in that context .

these structures are called cilia , and they actually move the mucus out of the lung .

my father made false papers for the american deserters who did not wish to take up arms against the vietnamese .

( applause )

when i made love with my wife , i had no sperm that came out of me ; i had blood .

now , this next artist i 've been following for many years , watching him excite the public about anatomy .

we create our own realities in many other ways .

the one you made . ( clicks metronome ) ( clicks metronome ) well done . okay , good . super . so — ( applause ) so — ( applause ) thank you . ( applause ) so — three versions . ( applause ) oh . ( laughs ) ( applause ) three versions of physical thinking , yeah ?

these days it 's very popular to believe that this push for transparency , this kind of a combination between active citizens , new technologies and much more transparency-friendly legislation can restore trust in politics .

number three : use open-ended questions .

but what i want to suggest , and the reason i 'm here is to tell you that i think we 're about to be in a very different world as we think about these illnesses .

and can you guess what the young men are waiting for ?

extroverted women ?

this assessment , unfortunately , is far too optimistic .

this is an image from tuscany , where we feel agriculture is still about beauty .

the theory of evolution is telling us that once again , we 're wrong .

this issue is , how will we react ?

it is important to now state that i did n't see my deed for what it was .

it goes from slave trade to over-consumption of sugar with some sweet moments in between .

last year alone , we treated in israel 207,000 people .

and that 's true both for continental areas like the u.s. or europe and for smaller areas embedded within a larger grid .

so you 're really going to see an extreme segregation going on between the winners and the losers across africa .

so i was curious about why there was a disconnect between the way our society perceives doodling and the way that the reality is .

which means there would be very little resolution , what we call boundary or edge detection , and that furthermore , because the eyes would have been totally dilated under this light , the depth of field , the distance at which you can focus and see details , would have been less than 18 inches away .

right ? and from that perspective , we look ok .

`` so i thought , `` '' duh , robin , this is the difference between industrial production and peer production . '' '' industrial production , the whole point of industrial production is to provide a standardized , exact service model that is consistent every single time , and i 'm really thankful that my smartphone is made using industrial production . ''

and the greatest danger we have of managing this power transition of the shift toward the east is fear .

so imagine that : these are like little swimming dinosaurs .

we 're not really interested in these kinds of new adventures .

and i also feel softer because i 'm not scared of being vulnerable .

so you can see it rotating here .

they 're a monument to our human brilliance and everything that is possible .

that day standing up in that stadium shouting at the president , i discovered why i was truly born , that i would no longer be silent in the face of injustice .

in the 21st century , we need to actually look at — and what i 'm actually going to encourage you to consider today — is to go back to our school days when we learned how to count .

we felt helpless .

now it 's time to demand that intimate justice in their personal lives as well .

and if you look at the economy , it really is only providing opportunities now to people with a better education .

and actually when you look at the impacts , the impacts are substantial .

in fact , why would we put these balls in the soup , there 's meat in there anyway ?

was what was happening in ghana a metaphor for what was happening in me ?

now the same view in 2010 .

we just read the back of a label on a packet .

cp : yeah . they still did n't know what to think of that though .

this is a jazz band .

when i was six years old , i was walking back from school on a friday afternoon with my older brother .

elon musk : well , it goes back to when i was in university .

well , first , we need data .

we start to see that it 's got a median , so it 's a two-lane bridge .

but it 's actually not a new field .

we 're looking for one that crosses east-west .

and i saw this line coming for me .

here you have a retina .

they can solve problems together .

and this is 22 feet long .

so when people are looking at the plastic bag , it 's likely they 're thinking of something like this , which we all know is absolutely terrible , and we should be avoiding at all expenses these kinds of environmental damages .

yet another change for the worse in the status of the elderly is formal retirement from the workforce , carrying with it a loss of work friendships and a loss of the self-esteem associated with work .

it 's a partial differential equation .

you had to go to class .

we 're going to see if this has an effect on what people do .

( laughter ) another thing we ca n't see is the human genome .

i ca n't quite explain it , and he ca n't either .

and who knows what it will be called in the end .

the first problem was a conservation problem .

we do n't know , if you change the gravity substantially , if the same thing will happen to create your body .

successful innovation is not a single breakthrough .

it 's there for our use , on some level .

i hope you would agree it 's important for you to know if your government is willing to invest in renewable energy and education .

there are all sorts of types of music that are very healthy .

and you can also see some photos from his business companion where he has a taste in a certain kind of image .

in reality , it does not really make you safer .

and this has to be true for any two words within the space .

and this is one potential solution .

everyone i met , i felt i knew them for as long as i could remember .

not only the jews , he 'd taken the temple vessels .

it 's active . you ca n't tell the difference really .

finally came mankind 's most advanced and mysterious tool , the computer .

( applause )

thank you .

eric berlow : i 'm an ecologist , and sean 's a physicist , and we both study complex networks .

you know , we always think that hey , there are these idealized versions , people are just showing the best things that happened in their lives . i 've thought that many times .

but it gets better .

i flew here yesterday .

it 's clearly traumatizing .

and then it went international . ( laughter )

i move to the back of the hall and burst into tears .

it 's not like we 're making a little mini-device for each of the different cell types .

thank you very much .

it 's not a company .

that 's it . you 've created the perfect malarial mosquito habitat that 's right outside your door .

it 's a dendritic drainage pattern that can be formed only by the flow of liquids .

living conditions were quite spartan .

and then gradually gentrifies .

it learned to move and began to see . the first eyes grew on trilobites .

this leather can be grown in the shape of a wallet , a handbag or a car seat .

our organization has three goals .

i was 26. i remember sitting there looking down at my sledge . i had my skis ready to go , i had a satellite phone , a pump-action shotgun in case i was attacked by a polar bear .

it must always be in motion .

it 's ok if you use something like blood or bone marrow — those are the targets of a lot of research now .

in the arab region , they brand these attempts as a western conspiracy to undermine traditional arab and islamic values .

in fact , the dominant female is extremely important for the cohesion of the group .

so it was a hard lesson that he did n't like me , but you know what , he was right .

this is a police photo . that 's actually my car .

wk : yeah , if they can help me with materials , yeah .

em : thank you . ca : that was awesome . that was really , really cool .

there was less erosion . the channels narrowed .

we are doing the sequestration of about 100,000 tons of carbon with these trees .

20 percent of the council . ( applause ) the same time , finally , that council , after rejecting our petition four times for women driving , they finally accepted it last february . ( applause )

in fact , it 's the system in the painful process of breaking down — our system , of debt-fueled economic growth , of ineffective democracy , of overloading planet earth , is eating itself alive .

ca : but you yourself get a long-term commercial benefit from that power .

76 countries in the last 12 years , i 've visited .

and , just to kind of tear down a myth here , lots of people think that when you get infected with a computer virus , it 's because you went to a porn site .

humanity has just begun its exploration at the lhc at this big high energy , and we have much searching to do .

second , this layer contains molecules which bind specifically to our tumor cell .

what is it about you ?

there are different ways to approach evolutionary medicine , and one way is to extract human dna from ancient bones .

fat activism refuses to indulge this fear .

now this cortical folding presents a significant challenge for interpreting surface electrical impulses .

yr : this phrase is now etched into my mind clearer than the pin number to my bank card , so i can pretend i speak chinese fluently .

their essay would go viral , get translated into many languages , get debated at pubs and coffee houses and salons , and at dinner parties , and influence leaders , legislators , popular opinion .

there 's a historical marker .

`` because i was tired of the racism , i was tired of discrimination , i was tired of the `` '' -isms '' '' and the schisms . ''

it is bound to happen .

`` this is the opening of a beautiful novel by jose saramago called `` '' seeing . '' '' but in my view it very well captures part of the problem that we have with democracy in europe these days . ''

so the idea is that we get the speed and efficiency benefits of using these physical dials together with the flexibility and versatility of a system that 's designed in software .

thank you very much .

we can think of older genome engineering technologies as similar to having to rewire your computer each time you want to run a new piece of software , whereas the crispr technology is like software for the genome , we can program it easily , using these little bits of rna .

i have a deeper connection to my laptop than any bit of soil .

they were eating together , sleeping together , doing tasks and missions together .

in africa , about a snake who could cause the ground to smoke .

so clarity .

two more than people , and the same as a gorilla .

there are disagreeable givers in our organizations .

this mother , diane downs , shot her kids at close range , drove them to the hospital while they bled all over the car , claimed a scraggy-haired stranger did it .

they will evaporate , and we will be left with nothing but empty space .

it 's a phenomenon on the internet today called behavioral tracking , and it is very big business .

its roots are long and deep — its foundations , i 've tried to show , exist already , inside each of us .

as an artist , i 've been interested , in fact , in the visualization of citizenship , the gathering of many anecdotes , urban stories , in order to narrativize the relationship between social processes and spaces .

additionally , these sort of edenic places are often distant from where people live .

his biggest obstacle , really , was the marketplace , which demands these days bright yellow foie gras .

( laughter ) tl : but we can see that it actually works , even though you can only hold it for a little bit of time .

if we ask that question , and compare the denisovan genome to people around the world , we surprisingly find no evidence of denisovan dna in any people living even close to siberia today .

architects can stretch or rotate the models with their two hands directly .

lastly , i want to talk about growth .

and then the summit in paris in december , to give us a climate agreement .

or , if you go in kind of half-heartedly , for a period of time you 'll reduce the disease burden , but eventually those tools will become ineffective , and the death rate will soar back up again .

that is the essence of our life , these forests .

well it turns out , he did n't have a strep throat .

but there 's actually a lot of structure there .

we have a very high-speed camera , which we had lots of fun with on the book .

to most of you , this is a device to buy , sell , play games , watch videos .

like so many who straddle east and west , i 've been drawn , over the years , to try to better understand my origins .

it 's just crazy that that 's what we use our space for .

all of these transfers get copied around to everyone else 's pieces of paper .

so , as sort of — i 'm told it 's called a stadium wave , so we 're going to start from this side of the room on the count of three , and go over to here .

some of the teenagers said that in fact the car was 15 feet away when it shot .

and it is his spirit and his optimism that is in my dna .

not so much .

a little dance , and then heads off in a particular direction .

but before i go into that , let me tell you a story .

so no water is stored . it 's always on tap .

we took the chains off the front doors of the school .

and it was an old track , but for fun he turned and he began to follow it , and i tell you , i could tell by the speed at which he moved on those pad marks that this man was a ph.d.-level tracker .

your genetic information is strung into a long and twisted molecule , the dna double helix , that has over three billion letters , beginning to end .

and no matter what country you live or work in , you 've also seen the extraordinary things that individuals are capable of , even in their most ordinariness .

there 's three things happening here .

they literally flipped the switch .

humans have known about the power of propolis since biblical times .

the crossover that 's going to matter is the one with the blue .

it 's the sum total of his life , all the things that had happened — the bad things , the good things .

it 's 25 percent cleaner than oil .

the arrow shows you the long axis .

we can reduce the stress and the polarization in our urban habitats .

so i said fine , i 've got a new plan .

there 's no real word for stuff that makes us secure , but does n't make us feel secure .

and polio , i think , is one of the most powerful examples .

i decided i would destroy my own argument by creating an absurd proposition .

you 'd like to see a colony on mars .

and i 'm happy to say only one other person in that area got polio .

rat , that 's a rat — could have been you .

then we have a few more that can handle documents , as long as they are not too complex , and we have 5 % of the population that can handle really complex documents .

but today i want to focus on this concept of composition for physical space .

`` so , now that you are all `` '' road scholars '' '' ... ''

so again , lexicography is not rocket science .

humans have just been involved in nature in a very influential way for a very long time .

at the third pole , 2,000 glaciers are melting fast , faster than the arctic .

we 've obtained a propaganda video made by the taliban .

why are there so many jobs ?

in 18 weeks , they have a skill . they are mature .

and indeed , one of the wonderful things about the theory is that if you have super-linear scaling from wealth creation and innovation , then indeed you get , from the same theory , a beautiful rising exponential curve — lovely .

yet , what is money ?

this is the area where primary auditory processing — so you 're hearing my words , you 're sending it up into higher language processing centers .

we needed proof .

so the essentials are , we 've got to have interaction in those areas , with the terrorists , the facilitators , etc .

and those planets that are much farther away from the star , well they 're so cold that , again , our form of life would not take hold .

here are the whales changing the composition of the atmosphere .

what was the age of leonardo at the time ? does that fit ?

her mother , that 's right .

if you hear a lot about tiger attacks , there must be a lot of tigers around .

now , some people call her the first programmer .

i felt so incredibly grateful for my life .

well it has to do with pinocchio 's nose .

( applause )

also , if you follow the news , it 's pretty clear that that alone is n't going to be enough .

when they come to me , they help me to treat the people , to help .

this is extraordinary . because rice — get this — rice is known to have 38 thousand genes .

an asteroid impact ?

and i find that a very encouraging message , in fact , that even in the face of huge amounts of data , it still pays off to make decisions , to be an expert in what you 're doing and take risks .

crazy to think that we 're having surgery , we 're trying to excise cancer , we do n't know where the cancer is .

good for g.e. , right ?

but this does n't mean that we should n't try .

and it made me want to explore more .

and that 's just in healthcare .

i remember my grandfather revising the capitals of the world with me .

essentially , we are pattern-seeking primates .

it 's also one-dimensional because our mouths are built that way .

if that some place else where it bulges is inside the biggest nerve in your body , your brain , you get a vascular migraine .

and then the temperature began to drop .

be like buddha , have your own revelations .

i.q . is supposed to stabilize and solidify at the age of eight .

one woman i talked to , who also told a joke that landed badly , she stayed home for a year and a half .

and even sort of horrible things , like picking beans by hand , can now be done automatically .

i study how the brain processes information . that is , how it takes information in from the outside world , and converts it into patterns of electrical activity , and then how it uses those patterns to allow you to do things — to see , hear , to reach for an object .

`` why not learn to fly upside down ? '' '' and i did , and i learned to fly upside down and became an aerobatics flying instructor . ''

but if you happen to be sitting in beijing at the same time , by using technology in a constructive fashion , you could get it in mandarin or you could get it in russian — on and on and on , simultaneously without the use of human translators .

all the cars were back again , and you even have to admire the car drivers . they adapt so extremely quickly .

everywhere has the same density of people on this map .

it grew as light and oxygen increased .

jb : ok , put this — ok , i 'll just hold this thing . ok , great .

that 's the history of foie gras .

maybe i could become a filmmaker .

the prayer book is dark in both images and it comes out dark .

he went back , there was a few more days of evidence that was heard . at the end of it , he made the judgment that he was going to grant the petition for a retrial .

you can download it , install it in firefox , to see who is tracking you across the web and following you through the digital woods .

i am a data nerd , and the reason for that is i want to make sure that if we spend a dollar , that the program works , and if it does n't work , we should change the plan .

and they had certain criteria to do it .

`` the only accusation i ever heard leveled at him was when one of our clients said , `` solly , you are pathologically helpful . '' ''

but in the late '50s , right before the civil rights movement , the twist is popularized by chubby checker and dick clark .

so how do we do that ?

the real problem we have is most of us mexicans , we believe we are victims of our circumstances .

so what you 're seeing here is the bacteria metabolizing , and as they do so they create an electrical charge .

in politics also , there are different opinions .

how are these construals reflected in language ?

and a thorough study of religion could give us all sorts of insights into areas of life that are not going too well .

and earlier this year , there was a troubling incident where people who had made donations to rospil through a payments processing system called yandex money suddenly received threatening phone calls from members of a nationalist party who had obtained details about donors to rospil through members of the security services who had somehow obtained this information from people at yandex money .

going to scratch his nose .

in the middle of the reserve which they live in lies a road .

so that 's a chunk of what we 're looking for .

the lettuce has got liquid smoke infused into it .

we can bring to an end the bloodiest century that humanity has ever known .

and it 's been repeated in all kinds of walks of life since then , and it proves the same thing over again , that the people around you matter , and environment is everything .

the choice in this case is pretty simple .

( applause ) certainly robert kennedy suggested at the end of the speech exactly that .

yr : needless to say , i would like to apologize to any mandarin speakers in the audience .

my daughter gave me a rather nice anecdote on this .

we 're going to be a minority-majority country in one more generation .

and here 's an example of one of the first drawings .

it 's otherworldly , beautiful .

i helped many people , but whenever someone really needed help , i never got there in time . we never got there .

i should tell you our story .

nicholas , what is your prediction ?

it causes pollutants being issued , which have an economic cost , health cost and so on .

gever tulley : a rollercoaster built by seven-year-olds .

and just a piece of context — the societies in which our brains evolved had about 300 products and services .

if you do it for more than a second , it 's enough to basically destroy the proteins of the cells .

but i think at the end of the day , i think we will still need one lecture hall in our universities .

now , there are a few places — very few — where great teachers are being made .

everything is onboard , and it jumped in response to the student just flicking on a desk lamp next to it .

now , as the guy that 's invented this thing and designed it to do that , i found that exciting . but so what ?

so just keep working on them for a little second .

wars persist . power persists .

the good news is that , therefore , this scenario does not work ; it is not right .

smoking is in some deep sense negative savings .

but working on this project enabled her to make a connection to someone that she cares about and enabled her to keep on learning new things and continuing to practice her creativity and developing new ways of expressing herself .

i made contact with a child from swat who studied in a madrassa like this .

danielle feinberg : there 's a beauty in these unexpected moments — when you find the key to unlocking a robot 's soul , the moment when you discover what you want to do with your life .

school 's almost over . summer is near .

now , if this system of beautification , sanitation , protection does n't appeal to you , you are not alone .

at that moment , i understood that this child died for nothing .

we talk about ourselves as omnivores .

i 'm an artist and a dad — second time around .

live life . thank you .

so archie splits the men under his care as best he can into two equal groups .

and the farther you are away in distance , the longer it is in time from the initial blast ; and the more separation between you and the outside atmosphere , the better .

whether it 's the ruthless mexican drugs cartel , the zetas , who use anonymous companies to launder profits while their drugs-related violence is tearing communities apart across the americas .

while many believe it , few know it .

so here we are using 20 million barrels a day — producing eight , importing 12 , and from the 12 , five comes from opec .

since there is no real retribution possible that would make any difference , since there are people willing to actually give up their lives in order to do a lot of damage to us , it becomes apparent that the whole notion of this mutually assured destruction would not work .

i 'm a writer , i make stuff up , i imagine .

and there 's special workers for doing that .

during the civil war , he and his family were forced to flee to nigeria .

`` ( laughter ) but every night we would report to `` '' mission control '' '' — different masks they 're wearing . ''

on the other hand , if you were to look at strain — this is how much a fiber can be extended — if you look at the maximum value here , again , there 's a lot of variation and the clear winner is flagelliform , or the capture spiral filament .

now , mumita was a fun one to name . mumita is the destroyer .

and here is a new park in lower manhattan .

this time , babies are going to see the toy work and fail in exactly the same order , but we 're changing the distribution of evidence .

it 's about search , it 's about discovery , it 's about new products , it 's about new innovations .

so that 's what it is about .

this actually also goes for wine as well as fruit juice .

so i went to sleep , and that was it for me .

and one would think , that should give me a clue .

so realizing the truth gave me a position to choose : should i continue to hate , or let it go ?

others will turn to their friends , their family , looking for support .

but people have been using nonviolent action for thousands of years .

well , i 've already told you that white people own time .

( laughter ) eh : so i have one more question for you .

inside your heart a voice is calling .

it 's small , about five centimeters high .

when i listened to all the stories everywhere i went on the continents , i could n't always understand the complicated circumstances of their conflict .

well , this must be the strangest thing i found .

is there any strip lighting in your happy place ?

now , there 's a blank , so there 's no bullet .

it 's already halfway over , but something 's caught you and you 're drawn in and you care .

so as we go through this process , we 're gradually telling the computer more and more about the kinds of structures we 're looking for .

isadora was famous somewhere around 1908 for putting up a blue curtain , and she would stand with her hands over her solar plexus and she would wait , and she would wait , and then , she would move .

we bet our whole company on the hope that , with the right design , people would be willing to overcome the stranger-danger bias .

and i think there are signs that it is beginning to change .

obviously , in the last 10 years , we have much information .

and my second message is that everyone thinks domestic violence happens to women , that it 's a women 's issue .

make the argument .

it 's a very , very good idea to get them wired .

she finally decided that she was n't a virgin anymore after she 'd had her first orgasm with a partner .

but we lost 15 percent in just 30 years .

and the paradox is that the decade before the last decade was so promising — and for one reason primarily .

they 're living beings , and already our livestock is one of the largest users of land , fresh water , and one of the biggest producers of greenhouse gases which drive climate change .

( laughter ) combine that with a demographic and health survey collected by usaid in developing countries in africa , for example , which that survey actually can go so far as to directly measure the hiv status of families living in , for example , rural nigeria .

`` ( laughter ) `` '' i 've misjudged this women , '' '' thought mr . dickens . ''

when the environmentalists speak with economists , it 's like a schizophrenic dialogue , completely incoherent .

and i think that if the marketing were more aspirational , if we could focus as a community on how far we 've come and how amazing it would be to eradicate this disease , we could put polio fatigue and polio behind us .

it 's the thing you 'd like to avoid if you can , like to get a machine to do .

so , this idea of sacredness , whether or not there is a god .

they want to hunker down , they want to look to the future .

i trust my children when they say they 're going to turn the lights out at night .

i love to study these animals that break the rules , because every time they break a rule , they invent something new that made it possible for us to be able to be here today .

and i think our instinct is also wrong .

he took his boss aside , and he showed him the materials on confined masonry .

and it 's based , actually , on a more elevated piece of porcelain .

the question for us now is , how much can we make of it ?

`` they said , `` '' let 's present this to the leaders of our country . '' '' so in december we met in miami , in a hotel conference room . ''

not just is the digital now far from the present , but it 's in direct competition with it , and this is because not just am i absent from it , but so are you .

i held on for almost an hour , an hour to contemplate the whole of my life up until this point .

it 's just very good food .

it is today the most expensive disease , and costs are projected to increase fivefold by 2050 , as the baby boomer generation ages .

they covered lots of the continent , and they extended out over the ocean .

the solution for that is to make roads out of porous asphalt .

education .

now beaten an 11-year-old child . well done .

now , if we continue this process , we 'll generate rectangles of the form 13 by 21 , 21 by 34 , and so on .

i would say it probably measures ...

this is the retiree health care benefits .

`` they would come into the emergency room with what the police would call `` '' a lovers ' quarrel , '' '' and i would see a woman who was beaten , i would see a broken nose and a fractured wrist and swollen eyes . ''

it does n't turn out to be the case when you look at seatbelts versus car seats .

and the problem of how to go about this is quite obvious .

the slope of the epidemic curve is approaching now , in november .

would all those people not benefit from these single stall facilities ?

js : there 's obviously also something really deeply great about this .

i realized sister sam was right .

and he did and when he noticed some tenderness in the right lower quadrant , called the surgeons .

and in 2009 , i was asked to make a poster to be placed in the subway cars in new york city for a year .

but when that ancient continent broke up , life got lusher .

first of all , let 's acknowledge that change is hard .

this is not about new technology , it 's just rearranging our metal furniture .

the first is that there was a lot of heroic work by the health workers .

so this whole interaction with self and identity was a very difficult one for me growing up .

and this explanation represents great progress .

we try to make meaning out of everything that happens to us .

but genius rose to the challenge .

an oversimplification of american educational history .

here in los angeles , in the bay area in san francisco , it became tax deductible in the united states .

why is this so different for people ?

i often had to take care of patients with head trauma .

i propose to you that matter that can evolve is alive , and this gives us the idea of making evolvable matter .

so if we 're going to study animals that break the rules , should n't how we study them also break the rules ?

but the most important thing that we have to keep in mind is that reputation is largely contextual .

so it’s a leap of imagination .

you know , there could be a film 's [ unclear ] there , but it 's basically , every song ever made could be stored on 400 dollars worth of storage by 2008. it takes that entire element , the physical element , of songs off the table .

terrorists have actually adapted to it .

when they get damaged , say , by cigarette smoke for example , they do n't work properly , and they ca n't clear that mucus out .

the sad reality is , we develop vaccines not based upon the risk the pathogen poses to people , but on how economically risky it is to develop these vaccines .

when you try to solve really complex social problems , the right thing to do is most of the time to create the incentives .

and only two out of five spent time outdoors at least once a week .

you can get on your kinect and you can have unicorns dancing and rainbows spraying out of your mobile phone .

but talking can be done in different ways .

but in fact , we can build a really good response system .

that 's 30 times what it has today .

pm : well it was the way you did it . gg : yes , yes . fast pace .

and sarah and emily are the lucky ones , because they have a choice about how much they want to work .

and i realized that , when i 'd left the country , free and fair elections in a democratic environment were a dream .

we 've got lots of little tidbits in the book .

today , we will see 250,000 individual new computer viruses .

yes , things will get ugly , and it will happen soon — certainly in our lifetime — but we are more than capable of getting through everything that 's coming .

so i started a research project with them .

will they feel excommunicated as i did ?

what is astonishing about companies is that they scale sublinearly like biology , indicating that they 're dominated , not by super-linear innovation and ideas ; they become dominated by economies of scale .

and we then coax these cells to produce collagen , as they would naturally .

if they 're not taking away trash efficiently and effectively every day , it starts to spill out of its containments , and the dangers inherent to it threaten us in very real ways .

palliative care is a paradigm from diagnosis through the end of life .

it 's seen as a squishy kumbaya thing , or it 's seen as potentially depressing .

eventually the dust settled .

and trends like # thinspiration , # thighgap , # bikinibridge and # proana .

when we did the wall , we did the palestinian side .

my every moment .

we take nerves that are noisy and active that should be quiet , and we put them to sleep with local anesthetics .

and we then call that schizophrenia .

and the predictions , as you 've read , are serious .

actually , no .

i think that 's a very humbling and sobering thought that should remind us of our place in nature .

my name is thelma nichols .

so these are some of the pictures that , in fact , i used when i testified , but more importantly were , to me as a scientist , are those readings , the photometer readings , which i can then convert into actual predictions of the visual capability of the human eye under those circumstances , and from my readings that i recorded at the scene under the same solar and lunar conditions at the same time , so on and so forth , right , i could predict that there would be no reliable color perception , which is crucial for face recognition , and that there would be only scotopic vision ,

the u.n. broadband commission has recently set targets to help broadband access in 50 percent of the developing world , compared to 20 percent today .

specifically , i make technologies to help them communicate .

you have even the middle class sometimes getting trafficked .

she shared nude photos of herself with her high school boyfriend , thinking she could trust him .

they 're about how you feel .

because what little hoodlum would n't want a million and a half bucks-worth of stolen goods in his pocket .

i mean , have a look at this graph .

( applause ) so it 's time for change .

of course , there are no deities or supernatural spirits or angels , etc .

because not many people are really going to read archimedes in ancient greek , but they should have the chance to do it .

futureless language speakers are 20 to 24 percent less likely to be smoking at any given point in time compared to identical families , and they 're going to be 13 to 17 percent less likely to be obese by the time they retire , and they 're going to report being 21 percent more likely to have used a condom in their last sexual encounter .

thank you , nicolas perony .

massive heart attack .

most of us think of motion as a very visual thing .

and when you see these guys going at this cable with a hacksaw , you stop thinking about the internet as a cloud .

so , it was just before the time that the leonardo show was due to open when i finally made it back to the met , to new york , to see my new domain .

and not only do we show them , but others can read them .

and the most current story lesson that i 've had was completing the film i 've just done this year in 2012 .

this is probably the first real press release by a victorious army that we 've got .

( rocket launch ) so now it 's hovering at about 40 meters , and it 's constantly adjusting the angle , the pitch and yaw of the main engine , and maintaining roll with cold gas thrusters .

is that your signature ?

t : most importantly ... s : most importantly ...

do n't mourn . organize .

so here we are : a new idea about a network for transportation that is based on the ideas of the internet .

my next surgeon 's appointment was , coincidentally , right after a shift at the gift shop .

recently i was at the state department in washington and i met an incredibly passionate entrepreneur from ghana .

not too well , i 'm afraid .

each of us , of course , contains two human genomes — one from our mothers and one from our fathers .

and one last powerful attribute that comedy has as communication is that it 's inherently viral .

and this hope , this optimism , endured a year of turbulent transition .

that 's my story shared in the form of a lesson .

is it luck ? is it chance ?

and i found there are too many fields , and too few labor inspectors .

and as their number grows , the soil starts breathing again .

we change light bulbs without even thinking about it .

she had to file for disability .

obviously it was shown , and it was amazing .

i was also hypersensitive to texture .

he was born in the syrian capital of damascus in 1991 .

it 's the hardest thing i 've ever attempted , and there have been plenty of times when i felt like backing out .

here 's a picture that i took in southern patagonia .

but i came up with my estimate , which i felt pretty good about , that was about 10 exabytes of data across all of google 's operations , and then another maybe five exabytes or so of offline storage in tape drives , which it turns out google is about the world 's largest consumer of .

you started trying to research and see if you could find a cure somehow .

your phone is not a very simple tool .

( video ) : oh , oh , oh , oh , oh , oh .

they probably even know the shoe size of the operator .

`` says , `` '' leymah , my wish is to be educated . ''

later that day , she looked up into the sky with hope , because she saw two planes crossing in the sky .

what did it do ?

on street sides all over port-au-prince , entrepreneurs sprung up offering mobile phone charging stations .

so if we were to render these sounds visually , we might end up with something like this .

while browsing facebook , i saw a photo , a terrifying photo , of a tortured , dead body of a young egyptian guy .

and so we did just that .

do you worry much ?

it 's going to be simple to accomplish this .

you get a job and get out of the house .

and to do this , we used a test . it 's called a barnes maze .

actually , that whole row is n't right . ( laughter ) that 's not good . hi . yeah . real bad . do n't even look at me . ( laughter ) i am one of the one in four . thank you .

if we could get evolution into the material world , then i propose we should have a general theory of evolution .

cockpit , propeller , engine .

and this creates a structure through which they can combine .

you are not told about the population slowing down .

but when we lack power , our range narrows .

there were no clouds in the sky .

but what 's important about it is how it is that they 're grasping information , how they 're taking information , how they 're using it , and how they 're thinking with it .

because , let 's face it , some patterns are real .

it 's an electrifying performance .

a random odd number is a lot harder to test .

see companies , they scale .

`` ( laughter ) to which i 'd reply , `` you deserve brand-new books . '' ''

so like i said , i do n't actually know the answer .

last year on climate , for example , we had the highest global emissions ever .

in contrast , the net additions of nuclear capacity and coal capacity and the orders behind those keep fading because they cost too much and they have too much financial risk .

all the teenagers testified during the trial that they could see very well .

what would you have predicted , not knowing this ?

we know that there are staggering economic , financial , physical and emotional costs to this approach .

it is absolutely gorgeous .

`` or `` '' are n't your children suffering because you 're not there all the time ? '' '' and i think we have a tendency to make each other feel guilty . ''

keep your hands up if you wanted an operation .

and it 's that of a horrific fire in a nightclub in buenos aires about a decade ago .

so we all know the three o'clock in the morning syndrome , when something you 've been worrying about wakes you up — i see a lot of people — and for an hour you toss and turn , it gets worse and worse , and by four o'clock you 're pinned to the pillow by a monster this big .

it turns out , because they 're paid on contingency , it works really , really well in reverse .

the wok shot caught fire three times .

far from making less sweet porridge because he added sustainability into the mix , he actually significantly outperformed the benchmark .

and if we give antidepressants , then we increase the production of these newborn neurons , and we decrease the symptoms of depression , establishing a clear link between neurogenesis and depression .

this type of leather can do what today 's leather does , but with imagination , probably much more .

the act of you listening to me today brings me farther into the light .

but it also presented a gigantic challenge to investigative journalism .

and you know what ? it worked .

`` and my goodbye greeting from the chief of infectious diseases at san francisco general was , `` gary , this is the biggest mistake you 'll ever make . '' ''

and it 's simple risk perception , really .

( laughter ) so here 's the problem : this is what we all want .

this man cures it with three plants from the amazon rainforest .

i 'm an organic food-eating , carbon footprint-minimizing , robotic surgery geek .

i can also make him spin .

get into your car . close the door . you 're in a glass bubble .

that is how , for example , four german states in 2010 were 43 to 52 percent wind powered .

my mother told me to take it smaller .

my relationship with god — it was not love at first sight .

my children are the most precious thing to me , and the thought that i could be failing them in any way is intolerable .

so life one civilization is a civilization that begins to alter his or her looks .

you never know when you might need it .

his dream was to be a teacher .

and when i tried it , i knew i 'd found it .

here we see anna-sophia on april 8 , 2016 , in cape canaveral , watching her experiment launch to the international space station .

if you do that tomorrow , i 'll be dead , you 'll be dead , every single one of the men will be dead .

`` i 'm crying , and this asshole says , `` '' you 're the man of the house now . '' '' and i think that was the moment i began to understand the foolishness of the human condition . ''

those are the problems in the developing world .

man : now blink right to go right .

and it 's very present in a crowd like you .

the older ladies sometimes had n't seen a scanner before , but within 10 minutes of them finding their lost photo , they could give it to us , have it scanned , uploaded to a cloud server , it would be downloaded by a gaijin , a stranger , somewhere on the other side of the globe , and it 'd start being fixed .

this is an actual biopsy from a human breast cancer patient .

what happened ?

how many of you actually understand how the internet works ?

i 'm now working on getting this school system for free out into the world , and i 've found , very interestingly enough , that nobody wants it for free .

but let me tell you right off the bat , we are not shangri-la .

so the question is , okay , altruism is the answer , it 's not just a novel ideal , but can it be a real , pragmatic solution ?

it 's very difficult to do .

this is based on the structure of a diamond .

and it 's not only what you eat , but it 's also the texture of the food , when you eat it and how much of it you eat .

`` `` when are we ever going to get world peace ? '' ''

many of them are old , like this one in port moresby , many of them are breaking down and many are not in the highlands where they are required .

now , there 's a wide variety of problems that contribute to the lack of diversity in the technology force .

and beyond medicine , biofabrication can be a humane , sustainable and scalable new industry .

and i survive .

in the 19th century , it was a corrupt politician .

the circulation in our body distributes fresh blood , which feeds , nurtures and supports us , and brings the used blood back to be renewed .

here we were at every annual step through our first hundred years .

there are .

this is a story of a group of teenagers that one night , a few months ago , decided to invade this space under the freeway to begin constructing their own skateboard park .

there 's a strong tradition of acousmatic sound .

( applause )

and that is that i think that what we have in our society is , we forgot our connection with nature .

it shows these women playing with these toys .

because the night pete was diagnosed , he told us that he was going to get als in front of philanthropists like bill gates , and he did it .

but in science , knowing a lot of stuff is not the point .

so the symptoms of the complex are , no matter how complicated the problem , you have an absolutely overwhelming belief that you are infallibly right in your solution .

( applause )

it was first excavated in 1961 as they were building lax , although scientists believe that it dates back to the year 2000 before common era , when it was used as a busy transdimensional space port by the ancient astronauts who first colonized this planet and raised our species from savagery by giving us the gift of written language and technology and the gift of revolving restaurants .

and if you take me and a chimpanzee and put us together on some lonely island , and we had to struggle for survival to see who survives better , i would definitely place my bet on the chimpanzee , not on myself .

we are learning about how dense proximity can be .

`` there 's a bunch of code , and i get some friends to help , and we crack the code , and then inside that is another code , and then there are some equations , and then we solve those equations , and then finally out pops a message from google which is their official answer to my article , and it said , `` '' no comment . '' '' ( laughter ) ( applause ) and i love calculating these kinds of things , and it 's not that i love doing the math . ''

his friend , goro shimura — who worked on the mathematics with him — many decades later , reflected on taniyama 's life .

that made me angry .

maybe they could extract carbon dioxide .

europe was not spared either .

now , from khan academy , we saw that short 10-minute videos worked much better than trying to record an hour-long lecture and put it on the small-format screen .

the plot thickens .

the attacks of september 11 sent shock waves through my community .

he taught me all about the world .

so imagine a syrian woman .

and this mobile money is also providing a platform for access to alternative energy .

something else is going on .

economic growth matters powerfully for the individual .

so why are screens so pervasive in our analog life ?

i love my food .

so honeybees have these remarkable natural defenses that have kept them healthy and thriving for over 50 million years .

what you can see here are average numbers .

and i am deluding myself if i think , as a journalist , as a reporter , as a writer , what i do can stop them . i ca n't .

ok , do n't actually do it . ( laughter )

and are we talking about just people here in the u.s. and canada ?

and one more thing : archie was suffering from this illness himself .

we can engage so many more students with this , and they can have a better time doing it .

so give me the paper for nine months . i 'll give it back to you .

now , the ones that it does n't work are interesting .

but you never want to get stuck .

we 're going to go back to the moon ... 50 years later ?

`` but i just started again an hour ago . '' '' or , `` '' he wo n't stop raping me . ''

they have many of the attributes of psychopaths .

`` the army will shoot you , and hamas will kidnap you . '' '' we said , `` '' okay , let 's try and push as far as we can . '' '' i love the way that people will ask me , `` how big will my photo be ? '' ''

or just imagine what you could do if you had robots that could swim through your blood .

what 's crazy is what we do today .

i have typed these words in advance , as i did n't think it would be thrilling to sit here watching me typing .

and what they showed me is that , well , firstly , it 's at least to say odd that we do n't treat these pigs as absolute kings and queens .

divisive twitter trolls were quick to create even more injustice , commenting on my attacker 's ethnicity or class to push their own prejudiced agendas .

we 're used to physics giving us definitive explanations for the features we observe .

abolishing fossil fuels means disrupting our transportation system so that we can power our cars , buses and trains with electricity instead of dirty energy .

so back to my original question .

but of course , all of the soft tissue has decomposed , and the skeleton itself has limited health information .

and further back , 800,000 years ago is there a common origin with present day humans .

some situations , yes — high stakes , maybe their pupils dilate , their pitch goes up , their body movements change a little bit , but not all the time , not for everybody , it 's not reliable .

now , the simplest form of application is using our finger , but our finger has some limitations , so we 've devised an applicator .

well , think about when a bird sits on her eggs .

and the dams they built in the rivers provided habitats for otters and muskrats and ducks and fish and reptiles and amphibians .

in front of them on a screen is information about the wine .

but yes there are some solutions .

for the true selves of companies to come through , openness is paramount , but radical openness is not a solution , because when everything is open , nothing is open .

and as i pause for a few seconds , have a look at the screen .

i was allowed to visit mcgowan as a friend , not a journalist .

i inspected the solar panels on our roof . ( laughter ) one of my challenges as a pilot is to land the drone on our basketball hoop .

so then i would kind of justify not writing by giving a gift .

like many urban schools with high poverty rates , we face numerous challenges , like finding teachers who can empathize with the complexities of a disadvantaged community , lack of funding for technology , low parental involvement and neighborhood gangs that recruit children as early as fourth grade .

i never got that . i never got that , because anyone knows if you farm , you do n't plant crops in july and august .

we want this number to emerge from the laws of physics , but so far no one has found a way to do that .

what other evidence is there that the script could actually encode language ?

and that 's more or less it .

and the first things that you can see from this graph is , if you look at the blue data points , which are the mechanically ventilated air , they 're not simply a subset of the green data points , which are the outdoor air .

it is for you to learn to live in a new century in which there are no bonuses for showing up with the right skin and right organs .

thank you .

let me show you .

i think of it as sort of a cathedral .

`` only much later did i realize that she had been saying `` '' qc , '' '' or quality control . ''

his parents , born in nigeria , came to germany on scholarships .

so there 's not very much going on here .

likewise , for the young stars , or in contrast , the young stars , they just should not be there .

what if you do n't send me the smartphone ?

the gray boxes do n't run windows software ; they are a completely different technology .

so i studied forestry .

now , cities have been dealing with this problem for decades .

the father will probably kick himself for years to come that he did n't take that seat instead of his kid .

what are the characteristics of this top quartile ?

and it 's got a comments section here where we can submit comments to the website .

but it turns out that the key social identifier is how much you 're going to talk in the car .

it 's those bulgakov themes , it 's that picture of jesus and the devil hand in hand in gethsemane walking into the moonlight .

but here 's the thing : it did n't last .

i made a hypothesis , a ridiculous hypothesis .

no one knows .

the fish is degraded 20 percent , 50 percent and then the one i showed you , 70 percent .

we have so many different languages .

but the parents in the room know that texting is actually the best way to communicate with your kids .

two percent is n't 20 percent , but in the car business , which is slow moving , that 's huge ; that 's arrival .

you probably have n't thought that much about it .

this is a sculpture of the sun and the earth , in proportion .

risks to create spaces that have never been cantilevered to that extent .

so the building acts to create community within the building and the city at the same time .

you can collect every click , every homework submission , every forum post from tens of thousands of students .

we call it matternet .

thank you .

one way to imagine that is i gather large datasets from around the world .

i was really struck by the symphony of subtle sounds all around me in the city that you can hear and work with to understand where you are , how you need to move , and where you need to go .

well , i think all of you can guess that 12 years on , we 're still nowhere near that goal .

are they competent ? are they honest ? are they reliable ?

the next step in the domestic violence pattern is to introduce the threat of violence and see how she reacts .

it 's a children 's book about indian independence — very patriotic .

so now i 'm going to tell you a story about a very unusual park called the high line .

in israel , we 've asked to put a solar farm in the south of israel .

`` but with `` '' disappear , '' '' there 's really no analogies — so evan , what you want to do here is to imagine the cube slowly fading out , okay . ''

i 'm not even the more sophisticated voluptuous or curvaceous kind .

in fact , there are groups who would argue that they still do not have equal rights under the law .

today 40 million americans are indebted for their passage to the new economy .

they made their traffickers nearly four million dollars .

he was under the impression that i had a mild psychotic illness .

we ca n't expect others to spontaneously change their own minds .

it 's time that half of the world 's population had voice and equality within our world 's religions , churches , synagogues , mosques and shrines around the world .

delusions are fixed and false beliefs that are n't responsive to evidence , and hallucinations are false sensory experiences .

so , you know , virgin atlantic , virgin records — i guess it all started with a magazine called student .

consider the spartans .

they should be transparent , accessible , and available to everyone at no cost .

in a nutshell that 's what happened ?

even when this happens , we also see something that we do n't know .

it was made of glass , and this building really helped me to do my job good .

in moldova , young women raised in institutions are 10 times more likely to be trafficked than their peers , and a russian study found that two years after leaving institutions , young adults , 20 percent of them had a criminal record , 14 percent were involved in prostitution , and 10 percent had taken their own lives .

where were you , grandpa , when the jews were fleeing nazi germany and were being rejected from our shores ?

one of the things that i did is i made a number of quilts , and i made this quilt here .

this is our last project in chile .

in 1987 , in the month our eldest son gerard was born , i got my first blind computer , and it 's actually here .

but is it rebuilding trust ?

some mad scientist is going to jab your arm with a needle and take four tubes of blood .

as the father of five sons , i worry about who they 're going to be using as role models .

and what it does essentially is to stimulate further consumption growth .

and you see the monsoons moving around the planet , and the planet almost appears to have a heartbeat .

the loft on wooster street with the creaky hallways , the twelve-foot ceilings , white walls and cold floors .

it 's something that we have in common and they act as our primary interfaces for the world .

thank you .

if everything had been labeled , nothing would have been visible .

and i want to say that it is a liberating thing to realize that that is no obstacle to compassion — following on what fred luskin says — that these flaws just make us human .

artistry can also be seen in the repair and recovery of the human body .

because i always think meaning does n't really exist .

in genomics now , the genome cost about a billion dollars about 10 years ago when the first one came out .

they hardly ever make mistakes .

and so a punch card can hold about 80 characters , and you can fit about 2,000 or so cards into a box , and you put them in , say , my home region of new england , it would cover the entire region up to a depth of a little less than five kilometers , which is about three times deeper than the glaciers during the last ice age about 20,000 years ago .

now here 's the kicker .

they can take any element from any garment from the history of fashion and incorporate it into their own design .

we are drowning in news .

`` we need to listen to patients ' stories , and we need to be willing to say , `` '' i do n't know . '' '' `` `` i do n't know '' '' is a beautiful thing . ''

the encyclopedia will quickly pay for itself in practical applications .

we will be forced to think in completely new ways .

there are terrorists and other serious national security threats that i suspect we all want the fbi and the nsa to monitor .

and that 's when i made my first mistake ; i sent her home .

so for example , let 's take an english speaker .

when you looked in her eyes , any girl at the age of eleven is looking forward to the future , but there was an unreachable sadness in that girl’s eyes and if i could have translated that to the rest of the world for that moment , i believe that all the work that it had done for the global hiv/aids fund would be rewarded by people being prepared to make donations .

a pool of delicious nectar lies at the bottom of each flower 's long flute .

i mean , not all of them , and not the ones who send me hate mail , but you would be surprised .

they can talk — they 're very smooth , and they can write very , very well , but asking them to communicate ideas in a different way was a little uncomfortable for them .

pretty good , until about 10 minutes before my turn , when my whole body rebelled , and this wave of anxiety just washed over me .

and all this administrative data can be pulled together and processed to understand human behavior in a way we never could before .

see , there was a change in government , and six years later , all that new money disappeared .

now watch closely . this is popcorn . i 'll explain it here .

adam smith , 200 years ago , spoke about our desire for a life without shame .

now i mentioned the phone .

only about 12 species of mosquitos carry most of the world 's malaria , and we know quite a bit about the kinds of watery habitats that they specialize in .

this helped me see thomas in a new light .

but even legal developments have also been located in the wrong places , very far from the city centers where it 's impossible to provide low-cost , high-frequency public transport .

it was a tough decision . i loved university .

they lost a bunch of money one year , and their executive team for three days visualized their entire practice .

well , i would sit in the park and watch very carefully , and first among other things were the comfortable , movable chairs .

in cosmological terms , that was about 10 minutes ago .

( applause ) and this was a beautiful thing for the neighborhood itself , first 50 or 60 days , then 90 days , and then there was unfortunately another shooting in another 90 days , and the moms were hanging out in the afternoon .

islamists , not the young liberals that sparked the revolution , won the majority in parliament .

this is our view of how the world is run .

thank you for joining us today .

there is a cost of compression .

he had found the prime factors of ( 2 ^ 67 ) - 1 .

after eight years of rejection , i was thrilled to get my first commission with the percent for art in new york city .

i want to show you what one of those flights looks like .

i can and do just use the men 's room most of the time these days .

that theory turns out to be false .

instead of criticizing china for bad behavior , the west should be showing how it is that their own system of politics and economics is the superior one .

in the end , i accepted the job without actually having been here .

and those heroes did not need an army behind them .

and it 'll come out dark but red , and then you can start to read it rather clearly .

but there is — i mean , i 'm going to have some help , and the best person to help me introduce the code is actually the first man to sequence it , dr. craig venter .

already , we have been manufacturing with cell cultures for thousands of years , beginning with products like wine , beer and yogurt .

it is about us .

and then there 's what i call our average , necessary quotidian velocity .

for a while , that was the kind of country that american soldiers came back to — a unified country .

and it seems appropriate to start at the end , because this is a waste product that comes out of other animals , but it still contains nutrients and there are sufficient nutrients in there for dung beetles basically to make a living , and so dung beetles eat dung , and their larvae are also dung-feeders .

he 's out of office today .

and what 's great about this is the technology 's actually allowing the phone to start to see and understand much like how the human brain does .

did n't know how on earth i 'd ever pass a medical .

when i view the world from your perspective , i have empathy with you .

they watch the tops of our heads moving below on earth .

the real question is : do we care enough about future generations to take the very same policy risks we took to save the financial system ?

so now that egyptians have ended mubarak 's 30-year rule , they potentially could be an example for the region .

so it 's no wonder that some men do n't want to be bothered and skip going to the doctor altogether , especially if they feel fine .

i highly recommend the lesser known glossika as well .

and yet , america and africa have got a common interest .

if the internet has made us a global village , this model can develop its future leadership .

i 'm a professor , i get paid to have fanciful theories .

it 's the place where you 're deciding right now you probably are n't going to order the steak for dinner .

ec : beatbox started here in new york .

these are quartz crystals and feldspar , so most sand in the world on the mainland is made of quartz crystal and feldspar . it 's the erosion of granite rock .

but we are not beholden to it .

and so that 's the reason for me , several years ago .

are we in the middle of something unusual historically in your opinion ?

one of the surprising facts about bacteria is that they can naturally grow inside of tumors .

`` and we did . and he said , `` '' right . now we 're all connected . '' '' and as we held on , and we breathed as one , we knew we were n't on this journey alone . ''

and they passed through the detector .

`` do something different . what do you want to be ? '' '' and really slowly , slowly , slowly , it happened . ''

you must be tolerant .

but what happened when the congestion charges were there is not what you would expect , that people hated it more and more .

he sees an intruder in his territory , and it 's coming all the time and he 's there , so there is no end to it .

`` `` use a condom , do n't get aids . '' ''

`` so they call us out and , you know — `` ladies , you have one minute . '' ''

yes , because i just told you , we actually collect a lot of health data as economists .

what it does n't help them do is to learn word patterns .

there 's a whole story to tell here .

but before i dive into those i want to admit that i am an optimist .

mine is n't .

thirdly , people in the emerging markets look at china 's amazing and legendary infrastructure rollout .

it 's interesting . when people make a sound , when they laugh , when they fidget , when they take a drink or blow their nose or whatever , i hear everything .

now , i popped some pills earlier .

and then the traffic in those roads would be the hiring policies and the other practices that ran through those roads .

all the drivers are becoming members . it 's excellent .

nt : i needed no models , drawings or experiments .

but we forgot to treat our communities like they 're our customers ; like they 're our sons and daughters , our brothers and sisters , our mothers and fathers .

that 's right , six as well .

the problem is that our master-narrative has an answer for that too .

you will have come in contact with some of them .

now , of course , we care about the social value .

so this is absolutely amazing , where students are learning from each other , and they 're telling us that they are learning by teaching .

what i mean is with the profits from the first quarter acre , the farmers could buy a second and a third and a fourth .

`` what 's the point of these radio waves that you 've found ? '' '' and he said , `` '' well , i 've no idea . ''

they 're literally the sounds of space ringing , and they will travel out from these black holes at the speed of light as they ring down and coalesce to one spinning , quiet black hole at the end of the day .

take , for example , sequoia trees .

it works .

and from that , you can do things like reconstructing this extraordinary journey of that city that managed to have a sustainable development over a thousand years , managing to have all the time a form of equilibrium with its environment .

`` daniel webster said this : he said , `` '' if all of my possessions were taken from me with one exception , i would choose to keep the power of communication , for with it , i would regain all the rest . '' '' and that 's why , of all of these incredible applications of freespeech , the one that 's closest to my heart still remains the ability for this to empower children with disabilities to be able to communicate , the power of communication , to get back all the rest . ''

there is a conflict in developing world cities for money , for government investment .

traffic is effectively separated by size and contents without impeding its flow .

they engineered a system that was so robust that it 's still with us today , continuously producing identical people for a machine that no longer exists .

but i can hear the sound . i can see a lot .

why is google the search engine of choice for you ?

have a look .

so how does it work ?

this is part of the type of innovation we want to see in the rising africa .

but we were all so nervous .

and one ancient form of the book is scrolls .

a man named david was one such person .

thank you .

you 'd rather be d , on the edge of the network .

what you 're proposing is going to increase the likelihood that lots of sex happens outside marriage .

thank you .

and it 's a wonderful thing .

the cars are completely insured during the rental , and it gives drivers what they need , and what do they need ?

compared to the usual alternatives of paid babysitters and day care centers , grandparents offer superior , motivated , experienced child care .

so this is very surprising .

there is n't enough water .

the person never was at the james hotel .

i never have .

these two environments are totally different , but not only that , they 're both utterly hostile .

woo hoo ! ( applause ) it takes me back to the summer of 2011 .

when we got there , 20 minutes later , we started cpr on the kid .

where does it come from , and how does it develop , and what are the extreme forms that it can take ?

there is another way , because essentially , animal products are just collections of tissues , and right now we breed and raise highly complex animals only to create products that are made of relatively simple tissues .

i mean , everything off , it 's like the service call you get from the cable company , except for the whole world .

but it takes time . it takes money .

and the u.s. conference of mayors has endorsed not only the approach but the specific model .

we had a guest stay with a host in uruguay , and he suffered a heart attack .

some developed alcoholism . a few developed schizophrenia .

he had had headaches for about six weeks that got worse and worse and worse and worse .

the most important factors in modern politics are states and nations .

because of this romantic ideal , we are relying on our partner 's fidelity with a unique fervor .

artificial retinas , the ability to put these arrays on the back of the eyeball and allow the blind to see .

all right . this is pretty good ; this is pretty good .

so my moment of truth did not come all at once .

we 're human beings .

so i went in the bookstore . and i found tim 's book .

she was growing frustrated and kind of withdrawn and acting out in class .

oh look , a child porn proxy server .

it 's just like that .

so what i 'm thinking about is taking a few physical extensions from the body as i move , and i move them , and i do that by suggesting things to them : if , then ; if , then . okay , so here we go .

what if none of these things is the problem ?

very big ears , strange nose leaves , but teeny-tiny eyes .

everything has to change .

she has also founded orphanages and nutritional clinics .

and it was n't until , on one of my later viewings , that the veil was lifted and it was in a scene where he 's walked across the sinai desert and he 's reached the suez canal , and i suddenly got it .

now , let 's just take north america , for example , since that 's where we 're meeting .

and we 're zooming in by a factor of 100,000 times to obtain the resolution , so that we can see the branches of neurons all at the same time .

this approach is called integrated water management , or holistic or closed-loop .

this is a photographic representation , called snapshots .

kaplan would later describe me as 'writhing in agony . ' even in this state , what he accurately described as acutely and forwardly psychotic , i refused to take more medication .

here is a picture of me aged four .

we know that the dance behavior is an orientation behavior and it 's also a thermoregulation behavior , and we also know that they use a path integration system for finding their way home .

fifteen is a mild coma . three is the deepest .

so part of our understanding of this was given to us by ludwig boltzmann , an austrian physicist in the 19th century .

then they often hear that they 'll need it in an upcoming math class or on a future test .

`` i had a `` '' normal '' '' dad like everybody else , apart from the fact that he was 30 years older than ... ''

taking advantage of the military 's ability to move fast , do logistics and secure areas .

this is an error page , but what if this error page was also an opportunity ?

i think these are so commonplace , they 've become clichés of our society .

and one thing that is common to all of life is dna .

we 're talking about an object that you could crush down to half the square area of manhattan .

and it became really big at some point .

not for god , not for country , not for profit — just as a basic metric for global decision-making .

in fact , medicine today is a team sport .

and we actually went out and polled a thousand individual investors , and we found something fascinating .

is this guy dangerous or just nervous ?

the media became fixated .

it was a lot bigger than the asian elephant .

many countries have developed national action plans for change .

at times , i spent up to 20 hours in mechanical restraints , arms tied , arms and legs tied down , arms and legs tied down with a net tied tightly across my chest .

this review did not sit well with the authors of bilal bot .

i cofounded one of these companies .

so you took this company public , right ?

i found out that it was a much more severe problem than i thought .

but what it does show is that it 's sort of gaining ground , it 's gaining respectability .

applause for dan .

it 's a type of fossilized dental plaque that is called officially dental calculus .

like , that guy is at his feet .

a crucial part of this case study was that the teachers were duped too .

our global economy stops growing .

with a thousand juliáns working together , mexico would be a very different country .

so instead of throwing away these pieces of swollen brain , we decided with jean-françois brunet , who is a colleague of mine , a biologist , to study them .

well , imagine if you could go online and look up the real owner of a company .

( applause ) now whether this says more about the conflict between integrity and profitability of corporate journalism than it does about the attentiveness of stewart 's viewers , the larger point remains that stewart 's material is always grounded in a commitment to the facts — not because his intent is to inform . it 's not .

her first job was at an inner-city motel in san francisco as a maid .

i want to talk about sex for money .

an fm device in the cortex of the brain , the motor cortex , will send signals in real time to the motor points in the relevant muscles so that the person will be able to move their arm , let 's say , in real time , if they 've lost control of their arm .

life turned hard so it could venture inland .

they capture our data , and that means we ca n't monetize it or use it to better manage our lives .

but in addition , there 's something else .

and one of the main events are these ad-hoc schools .

and the map is actually a little bit bigger .

it speeds up aging . it makes it go faster .

so i did n't come to papercutting in a straight line .

i am the daughter of a forger , not just any forger ...

so when i had my ted wish last year , i said , look , i 'm going to switch my concept .

the blue dots are the sites that i 've actually navigated directly to .

night after night , he took me up on the terrace , on his shoulders , and pointed out jupiter and saturn and the great bear to me .

could you have a cheaper ride cheap enough that people would be willing to share it ?

she 's an italian fashion designer .

this is probably the first planned mid-air collision , at one-twentieth normal speed .

they went out into the field to answer a particular question .

in my previous job , well before my current firm , i was working with a man we will call john .

a great piece of comedy is a verbal magic trick , where you think it 's going over here and then all of a sudden you 're transported over here .

this is one of their founders , gert schaeffer .

so do n't fear , this is not going to be a cooking demonstration .

we all know how hard it is to change a habit .

there 's an inherent problem with low probability events .

normally when we mess around with an organism 's genes , we make that thing less evolutionarily fit .

so what 's my wish ?

ok ? stop . all right , now .

i never imagined that one day i 'd be speaking at tedmed .

work is not just something i do when i 'd rather be doing something else .

now if you 've ever been out for a nice , peaceful walk by the lake and happened to see some ducks having sex , you 've undoubtedly been alarmed , because it looks like gang rape .

so think about these two common objects .

we have a black president .

`` `` what a piece of work is a man ! how noble in reason ! '' ''

nothing to see , move along .

( audio ) mary had a little lamb ! little lamb ! little lamb !

each of these silk fibers exits from the spigot , and if you were to trace the fiber back into the spider , what you would find is that each spigot connects to its own individual silk gland . a silk gland kind of looks like a sac with a lot of silk proteins stuck inside .

for example , i told you that viruses have dna .

and it 's a very simple device — you could call it a sophisticated finger .

physicists have told us for a long time that the metal of that train looks solid but really it 's mostly empty space with microscopic particles zipping around .

`` text : `` '' between two fires : torture and displacement in northern uganda '' '' man : when we were at home , it was kony 's [ rebel ] soldiers disturbing us . ''

that 's the best part .

that had to be done by other people .

you should have seen the looks .

it senses the food ; it knows exactly what to do .

out of the several , one struck me the most .

so this is a mental picture , i 'm describing a mental , vivid picture that enables dancers to make choices for themselves about what to make .

you know , they would sit down and shoot alien spaceships all day long until they get it .

bg : in what sense ?

and if , however , you are detected very early , diagnosed early , treatment can start , and even in hiv-positives , it makes sense .

meanwhile the exact same year , at bell labs the next revolution was about to be announced , the next building block .

so here 's two questions that i have in my head when i think about this problem .

we spend so much time talking past each other and not enough time talking through our disagreements , and if we can start to find compassion for one another , then we have a shot at building common ground .

but not like lady gaga says , because baby , i was n't born this way .

so a microwave is a similar system .

i think it 's closer to a billion .

now it 's green .

the election process this year is not proving a good option for leading by example .

`` we need culture out there . '' '' so i went out and i started with the kids . ''

if you have been through a devastating time in your life , if you have lost someone or something you really care about , how would you continue to cope ?

and , critically — staying in these environments .

i was one of the few percentage of students who had a background in computer programming .

and one of the reasons why is it involves processing some pretty complicated concepts with terrible names .

if you can get a mouse that is functional , then you can see , is the new brain a blank slate ?

it starts with just giving people back their dignity .

it 's a lady named leslie aiello .

on giant grass .

you can see the relationships between the different names themselves .

musicians have bigger brains — it 's true .

and i was a really good dancer .

how we design , how do we organize , for more wisdom ?

i 'm happy to share a little more love in the world , it 's great , but here 's your prescription from dr. love : eight hugs a day .

even more interesting , in fact : every year , around october , the colony splits up , and all bats hibernate separately , but year after year , when the bats come together again in the spring , the communities stay the same .

i watch it sniffing the paper ceaselessly , intent as any forager that has nothing on its mind but the grubs and insects that will allow it to live another day .

and i took the controls , and i was flying .

( applause )

and that 's the final step .

he was always getting ingredients out of the fridge and mixing them into these , needless to say , uneatable concoctions , or making invisible macaroni and cheese .

i 've traveled a lot and nowhere else have i found the passion mexicans have .

but when 2,000 students give the same wrong answer , it 's kind of hard to miss .

and when bees have access to good nutrition , they 're better able to engage their own natural defenses , their healthcare , that they have relied on for millions of years .

we also adopted by ballot referendum the office of immigrant affairs for the city of new york .

she 's still there . she 's there this morning , actually .

is iran still to be the defender of the oppressed ?

and on the c.d. , this was on .

also , and this makes me extremely proud , a costa rican woman , christiana figueres , played a decisive role in the negotiations of the paris climate agreement .

we 're building cities like never before , bringing people out of poverty like never before , and changing the climate like never before .

we investigate all kinds of scientific and quasi-scientific controversies , but it turns out we do n't have to worry about any of this because the world 's going to end in 2012 .

`` you must stop because on the contrary , you will be dead . '' '' and i made the decision to stop . ''

and i say , that is your problem .

and that distinction is important .

but the materiality matters too , because in every society that anthropologists have looked at , material stuff operates as a kind of language — a language of goods , a symbolic language that we use to tell each other stories — stories , for example , about how important we are .

you 've seen them all around , especially these days as radars are cheaper .

and you should see the pride in the eyes of these people .

but this — i just want to show you some data here .

thank you very much .

you know how much they spent , and they also , say , because they had to contract with the local government to get the power provided , you might know what they made a deal to buy , so you know how much power it takes .

and he makes a work that answers what they think great art is .

and this , this has a lot of potential , a lot of promise , and the government of india recently licensed this technology from us , and they 're going to try it out with millions of different children trying to teach them english .

mind you , i had only ever been to libya before on vacation , and as a seven-year-old girl , it was magic .

and to find the connectomes of brains more like our own , we need more sophisticated technologies , that are automated , that will speed up the process of finding connectomes .

so then we tried picking words that came from specific parts of speech , so how about noun-verb-adjective-noun .

and it 's in fact working .

we easily say these sorts of things .

i still get excited at ghost stories every single time .

and my panic at not having a self that fit , and the confusion that came from my self being rejected , created anxiety , shame and hopelessness , which kind of defined me for a long time .

it goes underwater and uses sonar .

`` there is no other typographic information or visual information on the front , and the name of the book is `` '' only what 's necessary . '' '' so this is sort of symbolic about the decisions i have to make every day about the design that i 'm perceiving , and the design i 'm creating . ''

as a teenager , i was blaming myself for everything that happened .

they liberated my birth town .

i draw with soft pastel , which is dry like charcoal , but colors .

so maybe we 'll start charging for it and then it will go somewhere .

what i then saw in this little moving blue dot was the potential for chaos .

china leads their explosive growth and their plummeting cost .

so thinking about outcomes , it turns out appearances matter .

ca : but it 's not just bodies that — though that is amazing .

( laughter ) and in an age where we have too many choices , we have very little fear of pregnancy and disease and we 've got no feeling of shame for sex before marriage , i think people are taking their time to love .

`` without hesitation , she replied , `` '' i 've had an abortion . '' '' before polly , no one had ever told me that she 'd had an abortion . ''

ordinary people are capable of understanding this information , if we only go to the effort of presenting it to them in a form that they can engage with .

and then it 's restrained with the cables .

now , for some of you , when you hear about this , it might seem sort of strange about everybody learning to code .

this is still not really ideal for research , though , because it 's not entirely clear where all of these passwords came from , or exactly what policies were in effect when people created these passwords .

both black holes are getting closer together .

is this a local ?

the seats are in color .

there 's far too many experienced people in the ted community who would know much more about that than i ever will .

here 's a painting from back around that time .

they have some kind of moral capacity .

and let 's see what his reaction is as he 's headed through 90 degrees here , and now he 's going to — when he ends up down here , he 's going to be 180 degrees in the wrong direction .

this is a problem .

there 's obviously many important questions , but i think the following is a good place to start : what do we think the connection is between a child 's growing mind and their growing body ?

and also because that 's where , in terms of our own self-interest , we finally begin to grasp our ability to respond , our responsibility to the rest of the world .

still terrible .

( frequency ) thank you . ( applause ) it 's okay to applaud the laws of physics , but essentially what 's happening here — ( laughter ) — is the energy from the sound via the air and gas molecules is influencing the combustion properties of propane , creating a visible waveform , and we can see the alternating regions of compression and rarefaction that we call frequency , and the height is showing us amplitude .

but there 's a solution : you build a toilet .

some of you have this . and it 's sex-linked .

i believe that the answer here is to figure out how to create superintelligent a.i . such that even if — when — it escapes , it is still safe because it is fundamentally on our side because it shares our values .

there 's an outer layer and an inner layer .

em : i did build rockets when i was a kid , but i did n't think i 'd be involved in this .

it had to be first of all viable , meaning that technically , they could implement it in their country , and that it would be accepted by the people in the country .

and it 's so easy to cause people 's brains to release oxytocin .

it takes pharmaceutical chemistry 10 years to derive a new drug .

reason can lay out a road map to peace and harmony if the reasoner wants peace and harmony , but it can also lay out a road map to conflict and strife if the reasoner delights in conflict and strife .

my grandfather was a giant , too .

you 're going to see a picture of one in a moment .

experts predict ice-free arctic summers as early as 2020 .

and that 's probably the reason why i 've chosen to be a functional neurosurgeon .

( laughter ) so they get to try again , and this time they got it right .

in every job , in every organization i 've ever studied , the best results belong to the givers again .

actually , there is a conference going on in houston at the moment where many of these results are presented .

we can predict the accident and we can predict who , which cars , are in the best position to move out of the way to calculate the safest route for everyone .

what if , instead of starting with a complex and sentient animal , we started with what the tissues are made of , the basic unit of life , the cell ?

guess what . they do n't .

they thought you just wear out , there 's nothing you can do about it — kind of like an old shoe .

but we 've done relatively little to address it .

it impacts everything .

traditional business wisdom holds that trust is earned by predictable behavior , but when everything is consistent and standardized , how do you create meaningful experiences ?

its artists told stories across national boundaries , in as many languages , genres and philosophies as one can imagine .

but then , we 're just a community group , you know .

we western donor countries have given the african continent two trillion american dollars in the last 50 years .

so for a few hours , it all passed through china .

it 's really not easy to do this kind of work .

but when we met griselda , she was n't going to school .

the results have been nothing short of spectacular .

nonviolent campaigns are also less likely to cause physical harm to those waging the campaign , as well as their opponents .

now , how far does this analogy go ?

and again , when you 're thinking about how improbable this is , remember , five billion years ago , we were not here , and there was no life .

last january , my company , fark.com , was sued along with yahoo , msn , reddit , aol , techcrunch and others by a company called gooseberry natural resources .

it 's about two meters by three , and you are all welcome any time .

and i 'd like to tell you a story about bringing this power of the computer to move things around and interact with us off of the screen and into the physical world in which we live .

that 's what keeps you from getting help .

if you have a kid who 's behind , you would know you could assign them that video to watch and review the concept .

some of us have a burglar alarm system at home , and some of us do n't .

look at it here : 39 digits long , proven to be prime in 1876 by a mathematician called lucas .

so if we take an example — ptolemy had dozens of data points to support his theory that the planets would rotate around the earth .

we were standing in the middle of something amazing , because for the first time ever young africans could discuss the future of our continent in real time , without the restriction of borders , finances and watchful governments .

i can do whatever i want to my book or my car .

i have passion in my heart .

what we 've got is a burrow . that 's where the forage was .

`` when i asked , `` '' who is that ? '' '' she said , `` '' that 's wei . ''

that 's when they advocate for others .

she has quadriplegic cerebral palsy , so ever since she was born , she could neither move nor talk .

i 'm a visual artist .

and so sebastian bought squeak to protect his reputation .

that you see , the horizontal axis is where you place your country .

a brewery is essentially a bioreactor .

so children in the state care tend to do very badly .

though it was based on very little evidence , many scientists thought that all mammalian brains , including the human brain , were made in the same way , with a number of neurons that was always proportional to the size of the brain .

the first one is equality of quality of life , especially for children , that all children should have , beyond the obvious health and education , access to green spaces , to sports facilities , to swimming pools , to music lessons .

in war-torn places like monrovia , people come straight to you .

he walked into his garden and scratched his face on a thorn .

i insulted his mother , i insulted his ancestors .

and this is about good taste , good traditions .

but once i lost my sight and was walking along broadway , i was blessed every block of the way .

it 's the way we respond to — an immune response .

all we really need to do is look at this issue as the urgent , shameful issue that it is .

the common denominator is them .

so even though you are blind , you can put your hand over it , you can see the lanes of the road and obstacles .

this is two to five dollars . you have a bed .

iw : but last year , we did exactly that .

( laughter ) in her mind , it was a fact as true as any other .

art can create an analogy .

and then the charges of treason were dropped .

or we lose that raise or that promotion or that deal .

i think that compassion also is often linked to beauty — and by that i mean a willingness to see beauty in the other , not just what it is about them that might need helping .

we know that for alzheimer 's , for parkinson 's , for huntington 's .

in the shared future , it will be just that , shared .

this is the car 30 feet away from the judge .

and i do n't see this as an alternative to civilization .

when you paste an image , it 's just paper and glue .

they 're afraid of failing , but what sets them apart from the rest of us is that they 're even more afraid of failing to try .

i sure do .

why were my neighborhood friends learning and reading material that i had done two to three years prior ?

the earth is a statistical improbability .

so what about that kid who does n't have a nutritious breakfast waiting for him ?

ehud is going into his third treatment , and then his fourth treatment .

for many people , acting involves courage .

but if you search for a stock photo of diarrhea in a leading photo image agency , this is the picture that you come up with .

the value of freedom . it 's a value of community .

i had done all i possibly could , and now i was in their hands .

mt : abracadabra ?

it felt like i was not alone .

and you do get to the point where there 's some wild fluctuations with bitcoin .

now , i work in acute care .

this has crucial implications for what the universe is going to do in the future .

and it is not only through other people that we get to experience our humanity but through all the creatures that live on this planet .

they have collated crowd-sourced data and rendered the invisible visible .

but the question arises : okay , so how much do uruguay , paraguay , argentina and indeed the state of mato grosso in brazil pay for that vital input to that economy to the state of amazonas , which produces that rainfall ?

and as a cancer doctor , i 'm looking forward to being out of a job .

and with that , i think there 's some great things that will come out of it .

`` ( laughter ) we 've done a lot of outrageous things in our lives , and we said , okay , local , what does `` '' local '' '' mean ? ''

i have learned to always go for option two , and i have found that it has taken me from strength to strength .

and then in addition , transgenic pigs , knockout pigs , from the national institute of animal science in south korea , are pigs that they are going to use , in fact , to try to create all kinds of drugs and other industrial types of chemicals that they want the blood and the milk of these animals to produce for them , instead of producing them in an industrial way .

how do you pay that fine without going back to the streets ?

and they also offered him an internship .

the last time i 'd painted , i was 16 years old at summer camp , and i did n't want to teach myself how to paint by copying the old masters or stretching a canvas and practicing over and over again on that surface , because that 's not what this project was about for me .

actually , i lied .

he was dealing with metastatic testicular cancer , spread to his brain .

it 's what we use a year .

on the other hand , the person here , highlighted with the red dot , is not even 40 , but has a biological age of 65 .

so there 's a new block that says how much video motion there is , and then , if there 's so much video motion , it will then tell the balloon to pop .

`` and you can pick a style . so this one was tagged `` '' abstract . '' '' but there 's a bunch of different styles . ''

but also the knife , the razor blade , the hammer and the pistol with one bullet .

it 's the second leading cause of death for people age 10 to 34 , and 15 percent of american youth report having made a suicide plan in the last year .

so what you see in this particular ambiguous figure is , of course , the dolphins , right ?

and then they come home and they have to give all that up and they 're coming back to a society , a modern society , which is hard on people who were n't even in the military .

so , we had the goal and we had the issues , and now we needed to figure out what the solutions were .

we want something , therefore we buy it .

ln : so what animal could it be ?

you know , orion facing the roaring bull .

so now , if you were going to be a violinist , which you probably were n't , you go and do this on wednesday .

and we end up with a narrative that not only erases women from the struggles in the region but often misrepresents the struggles themselves .

there is no creator here to be recognized .

so on my way into the store , there was this grown white guy in the doorway blocking my way .

but when we want to have a video chat or play a game or lay out the slides to our next ted talk , the objects on the table come alive .

and the family gathered .

now , of course , not all deception hits the news .

as the other girls slipped easily into their lycra and tulle creations , not one of the tutus was big enough to fit me .

and it went from about 25 million dollars to 150 million dollars .

i 've had a lot of time to think .

no expensive staff time required .

now i do own stocks .

this was done in like two or three days .

well , if you go out to sea on a ship or on a cruise ship , and look up to the funnel , you 'll see very black smoke .

but no .

we 're even doing this on purpose .

but it 's uh — let 's see if i can manipulate it a little bit without , um — oops .

and archie cochrane , as the camp doctor , was one of the first men in to clear up the mess .

in fact , 15 exos can fit on a single semi truck by itself .

we started three new companies in the last two years .

a cool and refreshing stream of water , you say .

i 'll never forget the magic that would happen when a woman stopped resisting the pain and opened .

and importantly , those bits of dna are passed on to the cells ' progeny , so cells are protected from viruses not only in one generation , but over many generations of cells .

if i reach out and pull an object , another neuron will fire , commanding me to pull that object .

so many people ask me , will we have a 3d printer in every home ?

but then again , i guess it 's also not unforeseeable that you can find the strange in the familiar , as long as you 're willing to look beyond what 's already been brought to light , that you can see what 's below the surface , hiding in the shadows , and recognize that there can be more there than meets the eye .

and it 's where all the neighbors , they can go up and socialize , and do activities such as having a two-kilometer run in the morning , jumping from one building to another .

and before i even knew it , i was suddenly on a stage surrounded by thousands of cheering people during a political rally .

since we also know that people that carry malaria parasites smell different compared to people that are uninfected , she 's convinced that we can train dogs to find people that carry the parasite .

but what i do hope is that if you remember anything i said or any of my stories tomorrow morning over breakfast , if you can remember the story of sarajevo , or the story of rwanda , then i 've done my job .

now a block of limestone , in itself , is n't particularly that interesting .

that will happen much more frequently than the random motions of atoms making you an apple orchard and some sugar and an oven , and then making you an apple pie .

how do i get them to pass ? i have to get them 20 more marks .

for that , we use an initial measurement unit .

six thousand people got to see because of that .

these projects are so — paypal , solarcity , tesla , spacex , they 're so spectacularly different , they 're such ambitious projects at scale .

what did you want to be when you were little ? do you love what you do ?

it 's only possible to see that insight when you step back and look at all of them .

( laughter ) and some of them , many of them actually , had water that came into more than one room .

this was last wednesday afternoon at a school in brooklyn , new york , at cristo rey high school , run by the jesuits .

if we made all of our autos this way , it would save oil equivalent to finding one and a half saudi arabias , or half an opec , by drilling in the detroit formation , a very prospective play .

the next breakthrough is to cut that 10 million in half again .

government officials are extremely mad .

and i 'll show you the last picture .

and we struggle with how to deal with them .

she 'll have better attendance , and she 'll show up on time more often .

( laughter ) ss : i 've been a greeting card .

in most cases , though , there was no glass .

and what i was curious about — because historically , the whole pig would be used up until the last bit so nothing would be wasted — and i was curious to find out if this was actually still the case .

art would pick up the duty that it used to have and that we 've neglected because of certain mis-founded ideas .

`` now the word `` '' tolerance , '' '' if you look at it in the dictionary , connotes `` '' allowing , '' '' `` '' indulging '' '' and `` '' enduring . '' '' in the medical context that it comes from , it is about testing the limits of thriving in an unfavorable environment . ''

white-nose syndrome has wiped out populations of bats .

the 21 species are indicated here by this phylogeny , this evolutionary tree , that shows their genetic relationships , and i 've colored in yellow the orb-web-weaving spiders .

tolerance is not really a lived virtue ; it 's more of a cerebral ascent .

do you go to a restaurant ?

this is n't some far-off frontier .

and so glaciers are these magnificent beings , and there 's lots of reasons to be obsessed with them , but what i 'm particularly interested in is in human-glacier relations .

she was stiff , and her little , lifeless hand was curled into itself .

and in the image on the right you might be able to see some of the archimedes writing .

for a year . a year .

so here 's what i learned .

and of course , also to the lighting — turning them on or off .

the answer is to enable cars to come in from that side road safely .

soon , another developmental milestone will be hit , and children begin to communicate in sentences .

if it was the big bang we were going to pick up , it would sound like this .

`` i love stories . i want to read . '' '' little did i know that i would be part of a technological revolution that would make that dream come true . ''

for the past decade and a half or so , i 've been trying to figure out how these little dudes do what they do , and how they pull this magic trick off .

and this is just showing this here — this frozen tissue , and it 's being cut .

the problem , however , is that mapping human social networks is not always possible .

let 's find out .

you can increase the shadow of the future .

i get that .

and likewise , once someone has been branded a rapist , it 's that much easier to call him a monster — inhuman .

`` and the question i get when i start talking about this most often is , `` what made you interested in this subject ? '' ''

had popped in with a different answer .

nigeria , the most populous country in africa , 10 percent .

it 's not about making learning happen .

i 'm glossing over the very difficult part , of course , which is how on earth do we figure out the w , the brain that can do such a thing ?

what we need to do is we need to learn to do more with less .

and so we started thinking about , well , how do we make those two trips and turn them into one .

it is a learned discipline .

so that 's one reason .

there are two main sets of reasons for this variation among societies in their treatment of old people .

now the fact of the matter is , if the west decides to compete , it will create a wider schism .

but this planet is different — it 's roiling inside .

so i 'm going to place this on a hot plate that is set to a temperature only slightly higher than ambient and you can see what happens .

tell us a couple of things .

it is about empowering vulnerable communities to tackle difficult , expensive and dangerous humanitarian detection tasks , and doing that with a local resource , plenty available .

gc : well , you know , one of the bad problems we have in this country is these kids , the same kids , these same vulnerable kids , when you get them in school , they drop out in record numbers .

and we have to get our messaging in there .

i have patients who would benefit from this .

he was a man of tremendous leadership .

we 've heard a lot about what they can and ca n't do .

i could n't get enough of it .

we are told that actions speak louder than words .

it is such a privilege to go to antarctica , i ca n't tell you .

they are multinational , as i say , they are branded , they have a clear identity , so they do n't get lost in a busy world .

carole maso wrote the book that later became my art bible .

and with our colleagues , we thought perhaps it 's our role to actually help make sure that the words are understood and actually create a work of reference that could be used across the arab region .

but we really wanted to prove that you could tell stories completely different in animation .

`` and i went to his deputy and asked him , `` '' what was going on ? ''

nowhere in the world , for example , do women have equal representation in positions of power .

isabel and i were serious about doing this .

there are n't a lot of good words for the concepts we 're going to talk about .

it was an amazing moment .

all consciousness is about communication .

there are actually people all over the world running this software , and we call them bitcoin miners .

( music ) ( applause ) so the next step for us in this process is now to find a way to let all of you build things like this , and so the way that we 're approaching that is by teaching workshops to people where we explain how they can use these kinds of tools , and then also working to get the tools and the materials and techniques out into the real world in a variety of ways .

why is it so easy to learn ?

and so to give you a sense of the best medical imaging that 's offered today to brain cancer patients , or actually generally to all cancer patients , take a look at this pet scan right here .

but i 've thought about this line a lot ever since .

so , like , hello , bert person of the future who is experiencing me .

i refer to self-mockery .

it 's not just the number of people using them , it 's the even greater number of people who feel better about their city just knowing that they are there .

thank you .

sp : but can reason lead us in directions that are good or decent or moral ?

`` so she said , `` '' everybody in palestine , in where ? israel ? ''

and if we used the same software on the right video , it lets us see each breath that this infant takes , and we can use this as a contact-free way to monitor her breathing .

ca : but you still live at home , right ?

you fake it and make it . this is the mantra of the united states of america .

and we managed to get that magic moment .

it recognizes that the market has its limitation , and so patient capital also works with smart subsidy to extend the benefits of a global economy to include all people .

`` `` '' we were doing fine , '' '' venus told me , `` until brutus started to cause trouble . '' ''

we poll a tiny fraction of the electorate and we predict the outcome of national elections .

and you all know roughly the story .

em : zero.ca : pay zero up front .

and that made me call myself a war child .

for example , the waves that hit us on september 14 — and yes , every single one of you stretched and compressed under the action of that wave — when the waves hit , they stretched the average person by one part in 10 to the 21 .

we also need to think about the legal issues in this area .

it blows my mind .

it would help and bring attention .

the next day i watched again as the matriarch broke a branch and she would put it in her mouth , and then she would break a second one and drop it on the ground .

so what are we going to do next ?

( applause )

you know where this story goes .

but we can fix this .

and it serves you the 404 page .

you see one gene . there are lots of genes actually that bind on foxo .

( applause )

( laughter ) what about fear ?

have they all gone mad ?

so i was positive that , if somehow we can make things mimic life , let 's go one step further .

marduk takes cyrus by the hand , calls him to shepherd his people and gives him the rule of babylon .

no one would ever show me tenderness .

for instance , einstein , perrin , smoluchowski , they used the mathematical analysis of random trajectories and the gauss curve to explain and prove that our world is made of atoms .

the idea here is to explain what happens when you steam broccoli .

now i do n't know why that 's the case , but my guess is that that 's because when you learn a language as an adult , you almost invariably learn it through your native language , or through your first language .

bg : naná vasconcelos !

i talked my family into doing this , and they did n't know what i was doing .

and under that definition , things look a little bit different .

but they do n't mean anything if you do n't understand something much more fundamental .

the cities we are going to build over the next 50 years will determine quality of life and even happiness for billions of people towards the future .

so they go through a huge number of them .

some shots go through quickly .

they 've enriched the lives of billions .

and that 's why we wanted it to be the 21st of september as the date of peace .

who is entitled to enjoy it ?

then connect the power . finally , the yellow ethernet cable .

actually , i love sports and i can play many sports , like swimming , skiing , skating , scuba diving , running and so on .

this was edward teach , better known as the british pirate , blackbeard .

this is the sort of general area of the treatment .

the right to express our ideas freely , to marry whom we choose , to choose our own partners , to be sexually active or not , to decide whether to have children and when , all this without violence or force or discrimination .

and i was distraught .

i knew if there was a day that i did n't worry about the high line , it would come down .

so , he 's discovering the garden .

and it had to be run in a quite new way .

the civil defense programs were disconnected from the reality of what we 'd see in all-out nuclear war .

the other comes from an interesting aspect of human memory that 's related to various brain functions but i can sum up for the sake of brevity here in a simple line : the brain abhors a vacuum .

and what really surprised me was that i found wounded human beings .

we need to start doing things like lula , president of brazil .

there 's no need .

you see , i would argue that riley is a metaphor for all kids , and i think dropping out of school comes in many different forms — to the senior who 's checked out before the year 's even begun or that empty desk in the back of an urban middle school 's classroom .

that 's as it was given to us in all of its clarity and glory .

they 're going to have to care in the social program , but if this builds a track record over five or 10 years , then you can widen that investor community as more people have confidence in the product .

and that 's the case all over the world , as you can see from these stars .

thank you . ( applause ) ( applause ) thank you . shukran . ( applause )

so what do we take from all of this ?

on this road there are cars , so it 's dangerous .

but this will produce an equally massive amount of desalination brine .

what this means is that human development , not secularization , is what 's key to women 's empowerment in the transforming middle east .

light does n't penetrate beneath the surface of the water , so ocean creatures like whales and dolphins and even 800 species of fish communicate by sound .

we also have seven-day executive programs .

`` or , `` '' you know what , i 'll look it up , i 'll ask someone , i 'll phone someone . i 'll find out . '' '' because that 's what we want people to do , and that 's how you evaluate them . ''

and subtractive techniques from the silicon industry ca n't do that very well .

i do n't know the stories .

pm : and in the book , you not only found your voice , which is clear and strong in the book , but you also share what you 've learned — the experiences of other people in the lessons .

this is the patent .

and so i was trying to wake them up using culture .

i mean , what am i going to find today ?

( applause ) and in recognition of the significant reforms we 've been able to implement in such a short time , kenya was recognized to be among the top three global reformers in the world two years in a row . ( applause )

and really , this gets to the very problem with these surveillance features , or backdoors .

you may want to take a closer look .

conservatives are really nice .

in between , we want to talk to people about it .

we do n't know .

i wanted my old life back . i wanted my body back .

and everything that she 's accomplished so far , finishing school , going to college , starting a company , collaborating with me to develop avaz , all of these things she 's done with nothing more than moving her eyes .

`` i am never using that , right ? '' '' so technology has changed . things have changed . ''

it completely passes below the radar screen .

( video ) juan ruiz : it 's like you guys can see with your eyes and we can see with our ears .

i 'm not an angel .

no religion can demolish that by indoctrination .

i propose that we attempt to find a connectome of a frozen brain .

and that 's the way we do it to this day , almost 40 years later .

there 's so much we can absorb .

accept your strengths and your weaknesses , and understand the difference .

so i 'm a neurosurgeon .

but then i realized that , as much as i know that these moments have contributed on my journey , they have influenced my journey but they have not been the beginning of it , but the true beginning of my journey was in front of a mud house in upper sindh of pakistan , where my father held the hand of my 14-year-old mother and they decided to walk out of the village to go to a town where they could send their kids to school .

it was exhilarating , but frustrating at times .

i ran there by foot . i had no medical equipment .

now i was getting a little anxious .

i am still 17 .

and i 'm just counting toasters here .

she 's the one who feeds me .

because if we continue adding fleets of conventional cars , our cities will become unbearable .

what 's learning going to be like ? we know what it 's like today , children pouring over with their mobile phones on the one hand and then reluctantly going to school to pick up their books with their other hand .

so , last year i was pregnant again .

this is a much more powerful and much , much more effective weapon .

and so the problem with chemists — and this is a massive advantage as well — is we like to focus on our elements .

and some of it is just the idea of creating media — media as a sculpture , something that would keep the sculpture fresh and ever-changing , by just creating the media that the sculpture is made of .

they are the product of what we originally experienced and everything that 's happened afterwards .

the moon was closer ; things were different .

we ruin their reputations , we crush their ratings and reviews .

would you eat this ?

( laughter ) so my first message for you is that domestic violence happens to everyone — all races , all religions , all income and education levels .

while aspiring to democracy the most , they were the least likely population in the world to say that they had actually voiced their opinion to a public official in the last month — at only four percent .

and if you can do that , then you can begin changing fundamental aspects of humanity .

they were pragmatic .

it certainly is .

so what can we do ?

well , the dartmouth atlas , about six years ago , looked at every dollar spent by medicare — generally this population .

these weapons affect the poorest of the poor .

i 've put on 30 pounds .

and that was no coincidence .

you 're offering to put me in hospitals ?

the nature had really reclaimed the whole complex .

thank you .

we call it charter , on the right .

so far it 's meant layoffs , increased class sizes .

how much technology would we need in this world to deliver our carbon targets ?

that it 's about communication that does n't just produce greater understanding within the individual , but leads to real change .

two months .

you scoop it up . you put it in cardboard boxes .

this is the fastest way to reach any medical emergency .

we see it with the openness in cuba .

but if we would count all the individuals , and we take an average weight of them , it would amount to something like 200 to 2,000 kilograms for each of you and me on earth .

it 's just wrong .

my uncle , my aunt , my brother or sister , can not force me to marry .

`` we 're going to watch elizabeth gilbert five times because what she says is so clever , '' '' you 'd feel cheated . ''

ok , it turns out that we can draw this e in one of two ways , and this was originally designed as a test of perspective-taking .

yes , the military involvement is an important part of the story , but inventing a computer also required other building blocks : music boxes , toy robot flute players , harpsichord keyboards , colorful patterns woven into fabric , and that 's just a small part of the story .

with this blended class late last year , the failure rate fell to nine percent .

this is a question i 've long asked myself .

it is a structure with a few microns , which is an internal wonder .

this kind of approach is kind of the way some students approach preparing for standardized tests .

not to mention what it reveals about the adult who 's speaking them .

see , normally in school , you do things like solve quadratic equations .

they multi-task .

and for the first time , they gave women a foot in the door of science .

and that is the light that i want to shine on health and medicine today .

in africa where i was , i did n't have drinkable water .

it 's called sankofa .

this was the last version that was just presented a few weeks ago in holland , which was using caravans as modules to build a starship .

they help maintain the stability and health of the oceans , and even provide services to human society .

the airbag-flattening algorithm came from all the developments of circle packing and the mathematical theory that was really developed just to create insects — things with legs .

so we could just walk in the street during the next days and the photos would get revealed by themselves .

what i proposed first doing is looking at a different material palette to do that .

this is me , all of me .

we also learned at this time that you could eat an oyster about the size of a dinner plate in the gowanus canal itself .

the internet is a fantastic resource for business , for political expression , for art and for learning .

and i tend to be a person who thinks too much and talks too little .

dm : she 's very tough ; it 's most challenging .

a long answer would go like this .

it arises around cracks in the earth .

it 's really dirty in production .

the minute the ad break comes on , this man has to rush to buy nuclear power from france , because everybody turns their kettles on at the same time .

what happens ?

we all work on little laptops and try to move desks to change the way we think .

audience : sex .

( applause ) now this attraction to objects does n't just work for celebrity objects .

he had just come off a successful stint as the lead designer at gucci , in case you did n't know .

road congestion is a pervasive phenomenon .

`` and a few years after i left , i went back , and the chairman of the burn department was very excited to see me — said , `` '' dan , i have a fantastic new treatment for you . '' '' i was very excited . i walked with him to his office . ''

so i was trying to persuade the hondurans , if you build a new city , you 've got to start with a site that 's at least 1,000 square kilometers .

firstly , stories can create an illusion of solidarity .

this is n't just a dry policy issue .

but we had one hope : maybe it was smooth .

but it 's applicable , again , to every organ system .

the great philosopher aristotle said if something does n't exist , there 's no word for it , and if there 's no word for something , that something does n't exist .

`` i do n't like to acknowledge a problem without also acknowledging those who work to fix it , so just wanted to acknowledge shows like `` '' mad men , '' '' movies like `` '' bridesmaids , '' '' whose female characters or protagonists are complex , multifaceted . ''

these were brilliant , driven men who accomplished amazing things .

it wants to put two little things in your heads .

having someone you can count on no matter what is essential to overcoming adversity .

now the journal of the national medical association gave my memoir a full clinical review , which is very unusual .

all those open hands out to me , that small , sad stone in my throat ...

( laughter ) we forget about the other two combinations .

in my lab , we develop tools to travel not only in space but also through time .

( laughter ) he was much younger in those days , and my father agreed to make false papers to enable him to come back and speak at a meeting .

perhaps some circular pieces of metal .

and then this is , again , the abstract version , which ends up getting a little bit crazy .

you sell it at a supermarket .

`` and that would take care of your problem , and that would provide the solution for you . '' '' so i immediately jumped in my car , went downtown , saw the trailer — it was a small trailer , but under the circumstances , i figured that was the best thing that i could do . ''

some of these are swollen lymph nodes that look a little larger than others .

how could we survive that ?

i do n't need to get emotionally attached to these things because around the corner , there is always going to be another crazy , colorful , shiny outfit just waiting for me , if i put a little love in my heart and look .

they want to move from micro to medium and beyond .

and i wanted to see us when we used , yes , our instruments in stone .

but what you 're seeing here is 160 to 175 degrees , and anything over 150 is superhydrophobic .

of course , there will be time for all that later in your life , after you come out of your room and begin to blossom , or at least pick up all your socks .

so effectively it 's the first time there 's been competition for this monopoly , because the utilities have been the only ones that owned those power distribution lines , but now it 's on your roof .

second , because it would make me the first and only journalist to visit a cmu .

our lives are sharing activities , at least in part .

what we need is information .

thank you .

that 's 500,000 more words . so that 's a lot .

i 've got a white-knuckle grip on the door . you know what i 'm talking about ?

the biggest surprise for me of living in a community like this ?

where is that ?

`` i submerge that in the word `` '' rascal . '' '' eh : well there 's a saying that amateurs borrow and professionals steal . ''

then a bulldozer began to pull the cable in from this specialized cable landing ship , and it was floated on these buoys until it was in the right place .

and i will conclude by saying any understanding of human relationships must take into account one the most powerful determinants of human behavior : the unquenchable , adaptable and primordial human drive to love .

so take a little bit of time friday afternoon , make yourself a three-category priority list : career , relationships , self .

and what this shows us is that time is highly elastic .

you 're 99.99 percent identical in terms of your human dna to the person sitting next to you .

i was born in algeria .

you 're killing people with your clinical trials . you need to shut it down now .

so , we 'll give prizes to the worst and to the best .

and so , those two individuals have different numbers of friends .

i 'll give you a couple seconds .

there was no water . there was no energy , no oil , no cars , none of that .

this goes to the fundamental problem we have with vaccine development for infectious diseases .

the price of retaining the rule of law is to limit the access to the great and kind of unbridled power .

those trying to employ them think they do n't know enough .

he 's at about 40 to 50 percent of his previous performance before the lesion .

woman 3 : okay , glass , record a video !

so how does multispectral imaging actually work ?

growing up , i was always a good , smart kid .

and here they had a chance to rebuild cities from the bottom up , but somehow were not connecting with them .

this became very , very clear , early on .

well , the first piece , which we 've talked about , is innovation .

i 'll take you now to the acoustic lab .

but we can simply no longer rely on established norms .

now while those in power , old and new , continue to cling to business as usual , millions are still pushing back , and pushing forward to what they hope will be a better life .

so , this simple narrative equating western demand and chinese suffering is appealing , especially at a time when many of us already feel guilty about our impact on the world , but it 's also inaccurate and disrespectful .

so , how about we think of the brain as being part of the larger organism .

doctor : how many are these ?

it 's got no water .

`` is life that improbable ? '' '' and this is really the question . ''

there has never yet been a drug they could not defeat .

`` `` '' pickpocket '' '' started a debate about criminality disenfranchisement . ''

if i 'm violent with you and you respond with violence , you become part of the violence and you just disguise my violence .

we get ever more vulnerable .

it turns out that b of a in september had 32 times .

i think that ship has sailed , it 's too late for me .

it 's like the earth does n't care what we need .

i needed tools that were robust , modular , highly efficient and optimized , low-cost , made from local and recycled materials that would last a lifetime , not designed for obsolescence .

so how do we ask this question ?

but it can also be really enlightening .

so here are a few of them .

and say that you 're for this .

it 's widely talked about how trust in institutions and many corporate brands has been steadily declining and continues to do so .

four-fifths of the world 's energy still comes from burning each year four cubic miles of the rotted remains of primeval swamp goo .

one library that keeps track of characters in the children 's book collection every year , found that in 2014 , only about 11 percent of the books had a character of color .

for a big bonus , now they get three .

it 's quite a bit more than any other organization in the world has , as far as we know .

what i did n't know , in fact , was what rules in their behavior the meerkats follow for this change at the edge of the group to happen and if simple rules were sufficient to explain it .

the ball would smash right into and through them , and the collisions with these air molecules would knock away the nitrogen , carbon and hydrogen from the ball , fragmenting it off into tiny particles , and also triggering waves of thermonuclear fusion in the air around it .

we have no water whatsoever .

but when you want to do something new , you have to apply the physics approach .

let me tell you what that looks like .

it 's an enormous burden .

your most precious asset goes out the elevator every night .

i 'm a monkey — ( laughter ) — blowing kisses at a butterfly .

they 're not very animated . ( laughter ) this was the fourth take , i 'm told . ( laughter ) okay . so , as we 're talking about cambridge , let 's now move on to technical advancements , because since we started putting this technology on mobile phones less than 12 months ago , the speed and the processing in these devices has grown at a really phenomenal rate , and that means that i can now take cinema-quality 3d models and place them in the world around me , so i have one over here .

it 's the perfect driving mechanism .

so , you know , it 's sort of a complicated thing . you have these patterns of pulses coming out of your eye every millisecond telling your brain what it is that you 're seeing .

and what i started with was understanding this as really a supreme piece of design .

so if we are to live in a world made of smart materials , we should know and understand them .

she was a mother who gave her life trying to get her son a chance at a better life .

and what the hell does that mean to you ?

but you might ask , well so what in any case ?

( applause )

i could afford that .

so we met with hundreds of individuals who worked at government agencies , from the tax agency , the lands office , utilities company , the agency that 's responsible for registering companies , and with each of them , we observed them as they served customers , we documented their processes — most of them were manual .

why ?

we can go back to the original economics of the car and look at it again .

the first surgery was a great success .

for example , the edp foundation , or ... ha ? — come talk to me later .

the trains were going too fast .

but it could be argued that the needle is holding back our immune responses ; it 's missing our immune sweet spot in the skin .

this means the majority of patients do n't do their exercises and therefore take a lot longer to get better .

and a few rise to the surface .

ca : what do you picture that you 're in right now ?

he kept one in the glove compartment of our car .

what will it be tomorrow ?

because this is n't what we do .

it was a doomsday for my family and for me .

thank you very much .

and therefore , we set up various experiments .

and the question i asked myself is , if i could n't do that , then who was i ?

do you mind doing that for me , sir ?

and in the case of one particularly understanding and generous guy , my husband .

it can be used perhaps in other places in the world .

it is going to demand an inclusive process of diplomacy very different from the one we are practicing today as we are heading to new rounds of difficult climate negotiations , but when we move toward something which has to be much more along a broad mobilization .

and it was that point that i realized that i had talked about the elephant in the room .

memory was the only prize i allowed myself .

thank you very much indeed .

seven .

and the other thing i would like you to think about is the new type of relationship between physician and patients when you have a patient on the table [ who ] is awake and can even monitor the treatment .

i do n't know what it feels like to a bee to have a big , bloodsucking parasite running around on it , and i do n't know what it feels like to a bee to have a virus , but i do know what it feels like when i have a virus , the flu , and i know how difficult it is for me to get to the grocery store to get good nutrition .

or perhaps i can assemble one out of dot and dash ice cubes — ice cube morse code .

( laughter ) and running gives me a lot of energy .

and yet , even in the best-resourced countries , for example here in europe , roughly 50 percent of affected people do n't receive these interventions .

stanford coursera , udacity , mitx and others have more classes coming .

i just never knew when .

i do n't want to miniaturize the progress and everything that 's been done in cancer research .

in the egyptian delta alone , we 've excavated less than one-1000th of one percent of the total volume of egyptian sites .

but this is a website called rospil that 's an anti-corruption site .

the next minute they 're on the same side .

i know my struggle does n't make theirs any easier .

thank you .

will this solve the problem ? will economics solve everything ?

yeah , down to the floor . can you go underneath ?

i said , take care of them .

in contrast , humans normally gather there in tens of thousands , and what we get is not chaos , usually .

there was no money involved .

( laughter ) to many people , this seems crazy .

one of the neurological conditions that can be treated with focused ultrasound are movement disorders , like parkinson 's or essential tremor .

work does n't make you happy , does it ? mostly it 's tough .

`` he declined , saying , `` '' do n't take my devils away , because my angels may flee too . '' '' my psychosis , on the other hand , is a waking nightmare in which my devils are so terrifying that all my angels have already fled . ''

whether it was concocting delicious meals from stolen scraps from the warehouse , sculpting people 's hair with toenail clippers , or constructing weights from boulders in laundry bags tied on to tree limbs , prisoners learn how to make do with less , and many of them want to take this ingenuity that they 've learned to the outside and start restaurants , barber shops , personal training businesses .

we stopped looking at him as a problem , and we started to look at him as an opportunity to improve .

and the 70 year-old ones , actually they 're better at scouting out the good nesting places , and they also have more progeny every year .

all right , you want me to start talking now .

and so of course there 's the mixed emotions .

thank you .

i do . i look for it all the time .

well , all of us here , i 'll bet , had some great teachers .

now , remember that we learn a great deal by sharing experiences .

and if you 're in the direct fallout zone here , you really have to either be sheltered or you have to get out of there , and that 's clear . but if you are sheltered , you can actually survive .

`` so , parabiosis is done in mice by surgically connecting the two mice together , and that leads then to a shared blood system , where we can now ask , `` '' how does the old brain get influenced by exposure to the young blood ? '' '' and for this purpose , we use young mice that are an equivalency of 20-year-old people , and old mice that are roughly 65 years old in human years . ''

and the answer is : not yet , they 're working .

under our apartment , there is a carpenter , sweetshops , a butcher , a printing house , workshops , among many more .

if you have a good wi-fi connection or 3g , this process is very , very quick .

that 's the distance between us and andromeda , right ?

how can we know ?

what if it 's not even the key part of it ?

and we bring together every summer about 100 very talented students from around the world .

and great excitement to a world where those who believed in the scriptures had had their faith in creation shaken by evolution , by geology , here was evidence that the scriptures were historically true .

some of you haven’t fired them yet .

a reproductive system that fails to function produces an individual that has no offspring , and that individual is then kicked out of the gene pool .

she 'd already learned that bathrooms were going to be a problem , and that problem started with her and was hers alone .

why is this a big issue ?

at the same time , i flew back to my home country , they hated that speech so much .

and we also need to re-examine livestock .

i caught up with him recently , where , over the course of several cups of tea , he told me how hosting guests from all over the world has enriched his life .

so people continue to flee into neighboring countries , and we build refugee camps for them in the desert .

to conclude , there are also other applications at the horizon .

there are four main components behind animal locomotion .

he repeated that about 50 times in the two days i was with him .

he 's been paralyzed from the waist down since he was 13 , in a car crash that killed his father and his sister .

( applause ) lakshmi pratury : just stay for a second . just stay here for a second . ( applause )

what do i mean by that ?

thank you . ( applause ) ( applause ) chris anderson : thank you , leslie , that was an insight that a lot of us have n't had before .

or they 'll just take a superficial , one-off approach , hoping that they can return back to business as usual as soon as the crisis is over .

and first , i commend you on your model knowledge . very impressive .

we were wrong then , and we are wrong again .

and in my life , i 've found it 's the things i do n't know that have lifted me up and pushed me forwards much more than the things i do know .

but we knew we really needed the right person to kind of rally behind and build something for .

it tells you the what , but it does n't tell you the where .

imagine if the next big network we built in the world was a network for the transportation of matter .

my grandmother taught me that things happen in the time they take , that time ca n't be fought , and because it will pass and it will move , we owe the present moment our full attention .

it 's about a young girl named chihiro who gets lost in the spirit world in an abandoned japanese theme park .

i do n't get visual feedback from people .

not just because you 're a certain type of person .

help me and the security community make life much , much more difficult for cybercriminals .

nobody was more surprised than me .

about 20 minutes into this conversation i was having with this one young woman , i leaned forward and tried to put my finger in the palm of her baby 's hand .

so i spent time with vivian , and i saw that she did n't find joy in cleaning toilets .

but on the other side , if you look at the natural systems , we have proteins that have two million types , can fold in 10,000 nanoseconds , or dna with three billion base pairs we can replicate in roughly an hour .

( applause )

being a coward was a compliment .

we need to get away from instrumental arguments .

fish swim backwards by wagging their heads .

and around the fortress is this vast field of taboo against premarital sex , against condoms , against abortion , against homosexuality , you name it .

prisoners were locked down in solitary for 22 hours a day .

he wraps it around my leg , picks me up a second time , walks me to a vehicle , and he 's able to get me to medical attention .

and if you have heard that the dropper of stuxnet is complex and high-tech , let me tell you this : the payload is rocket science .

so here , the computer has successfully found areas , for example , angles .

i mean we have to ask , has it happened before ?

but in the 1970s , some countries caught up .

thank you very much .

i 'm going to make your lives easy this afternoon and just ask you to do one thing , and that 's to go out , protest , speak about the unspeakable , and talk shit .

think about the last time you had fish .

is she smiling too brightly here , or did she accidentally brush up against a man there ?

technology can change our understanding of nature .

or do they accept that this is the only truth ?

there 's another case called the mcdonald case , where some victims of semtex , of the provisional ira bombings , which were supplied by gaddafi , sued , and that action has led to amazing things for new libya .

did n't they teach you 80-20 ?

so the beauty of helping bees this way , for me , is that every one of us needs to behave a little bit more like a bee society , an insect society , where each of our individual actions can contribute to a grand solution , an emergent property , that 's much greater than the mere sum of our individual actions .

you remember carlos ?

( video ) child : ommm . ommm . ommm .

he catches up with each of these people to find out why they treated him the way they did .

so think about it .

for those of us on the ground in those early days , it was clear for even the most disaster-hardened veterans that haiti was something different .

we 're now approaching essentially a thousand-dollar genome — probably next year to two years , probably a hundred-dollar genome .

they use a skeleton that we call a hydrostatic skeleton .

so there 's good news .

so we do need target theories that we can prove or disprove .

and that happened because this one person had a documentary instinct , which was to post a status update , which is what we all do now , so if something happens , we put our status update , or we post a photo , we post a video , and it all goes up into the cloud in a constant stream .

( laughter ) why did this have to get in the way of all that ?

it 's called dark matter .

it 's manipulation , but it can work .

and we designed a special screw , a custom screw , much to the chagrin of our investors .

why was everyone surprised at this ?

there was a time in my life when everything seemed perfect .

so what are the applications ?

and then you have the emerging world cities , with a mixed variety of vehicles , mixed land-use patterns , also rather dispersed but often with a very dense urban core .

we can eliminate our addiction to oil and coal by 2050 and use one-third less natural gas while switching to efficient use and renewable supply .

occasionally we sense something wrong or too late .

there 's certain sections of the song — the songs had different sections that the dancers really liked .

it gives them structure .

so we published some articles in the academic press .

and the journey to that place of understanding and acceptance has been an interesting one for me , and it 's given me an insight into the whole notion of self , which i think is worth sharing with you today .

actually , it 's all just an idea .

now for as long as i can remember , my job has been to take people out into nature , and so i think it 's a lovely twist of fate today to have the opportunity to bring some of my experiences out in nature in to this gathering .

i 've thought a lot about it .

i deserve the education that i get here .

`` ( `` '' do architects have ears ? '' '' ) ( laughter ) now , that 's a little unfair . some of my best friends are architects . ( laughter ) and they definitely do have ears . ''

and you make a plan .

and so what we started with was really a new way of thinking about building an institution , through a project called make history , which we launched in 2009 .

laptops , computers , tablets — you name it , they have it .

the streets were packed with police cars and religious police cars , but some hundred brave saudi women broke the ban and drove that day .

so at this point , my optimism should , i hope , be starting to make a bit more sense .

however , there are 6.3 million people worldwide who have the disease , and they have to live with incurable weakness , tremor , rigidity and the other symptoms that go along with the disease , so what we need are objective tools to detect the disease before it 's too late .

but ultimately , even these edens are deeply influenced by humans .

he told me that those false papers were the most media-relevant and the least useful he 'd had to make in all his life .

the only thing this bird did was fly against this window from 2004 to 2008 , day in and day out .

i never did , though .

i was 16 — i started writing poetry and going door to door telling everybody about honor killings and why it happens , why it should be stopped , and raising awareness about it until i actually found a much , much better way to handle this issue .

so the prediction test failed .

it was n't that they did n't want to read , but instead , they 'd gladly read if the resources were there .

and of course , as you go back upstream , the components get smaller and therefore cheaper .

but we do have to follow through and address the financial realities that we 're facing .

in those societies , older people are cared for .

woody : what ? am i hearing correctly ?

across europe and central asia , approximately one million children live in large residential institutions , usually known as orphanages .

maybe fear .

and while he 's doing that , we 're going to take images to see where the gold particles are .

`` time stood still for a long while , and all i could think and repeat in the chaos of my brain was : `` '' you can forget about that partnership , leila . ''

this is mass general in boston .

did we mix or not ?

but that likelihood fades as long as ice melts again .

`` it wo n't cost us any more to do it the right way . '' '' and they redid that building . ''

it was a huge event .

this is a much more accurate depiction of an ecosystem .

but if we ask for advice about one of our accomplishments , we are able to be competent in their eyes but also be likeable .

as a result of these efforts , and the help of many others , it happened .

this is geoffrey hinton here on the left-hand side .

this is a violent process .

that 's a lovely idea .

when we received this land , this land was as dead as i was .

and the design is completely modular .

now , there is actually a little origami in the james webb space telescope , but it 's very simple .

so going in , what was qatar in the 1940s ?

and doing that in the u.s .

`` and then i remember thinking about that eye specialist asking me , `` '' what do you want to be ? what do you want to be ? ''

but i have changed my mind about stress , and today , i want to change yours .

it does n't have any specific information in it which is about english .

`` so i said , `` '' i 'll hold it for you . '' '' he said , `` '' you know , you 've been so nice , let 's split the reward . '' '' i 'll give you the jewelry , you give me a hundred dollars , and when the guy comes ... `` '' you see it . i was conned . ''

now , related to this is another key issue , which is needlestick injuries .

and here we see three stages of development that it went through in 30 years .

i was trying to convert language , convert sentences in english into sentences in freespeech , and vice versa , and back and forth .

we 've gotten used to it .

and we started bouncing around ideas to make a collaborative music video project .

thank you .

the low-power double bind happens when , if we do n't speak up , we go unnoticed , but if we do speak up , we get punished .

in fact , what 's being absorbed is something like 25 percent of our emissions , which then leads to acidification or lower alkalinity in oceans .

that was awkward .

it was that sort of heady question about what counts that led me to take my ceo hat off for a week and fly off to the himalayan peaks .

i just found the molecule behind it .

mobile phones ?

in africa , you know , airtime has become literally a currency in its own right .

and this is what it 's all about .

i really was moved .

`` then he said , `` '' but really , sarah , you could have worked harder ! ca n't you see it 's really too small ? '' '' indeed , it 's rather small . ''

and i 'm going to leave you with one last demonstration , but before i do that , i would like to say thank you , and think small .

now , i do n't know about you , but i do n't buy that .

one place we 're all familiar with seeing this is with cell phones . right ?

`` and that 's really how i became an entrepreneur . '' '' think about this : here were girls who braved danger to become breadwinners during years in which they could n't even be on their streets . ''

we know the extraordinary cognitive capabilities that they have , and they also resemble the kind that human beings have .

and this is faster than most broadband connections these days .

sometimes it 's being new to a country , like an immigrant , or new to an organization or new to an experience , like my wife and i as new parents .

and that would be that .

he was five at the time .

and in order to do this work , we , of course , because of the limitation in health workers , had to recruit refugees to be a specialized new category of health worker .

now i want to stipulate , as the lawyers say , that lolcats are the stupidest possible creative act .

and i do n't think anyone in this room thinks that was a bad idea .

and i lied .

first of all , scale , might .

how many of you noticed that every one of those squares changed color ?

so once you take up skydiving or smoking , you downplay the risks .

five years ago , 135 million children were born — so , more — and less than 10 million of them died before the age of five .

`` i 'd ask her questions like , `` '' mum , why i ca n't i dress up and play with puppets all day ? '' '' `` why do you want fries with that ? '' ''

in that moment , my view of success and creativity changed .

we 're going to learn how to make one flap .

`` i 'm going to have to give you another pill . '' '' so now we 're talking about two medications . ''

( laughter ) right . all together now .

other times i would n't be able to speak or move at all .

and what 's the result ?

we did n't grasp what was going on .

we 're not losing the configuration of the information .

you now walk the same path as these early artists .

and this new metaphor is the metaphor of the network .

there were claims of intimidation at the polling stations , of ballot boxes being stolen .

now , it 's not as if it 's all rosy in the marital bed either .

in response , some people argue , but we need growth , we need it to solve poverty .

cyclist : who are you ? who are you ?

when i came home off that elephant , do you know what the most amazing part was ?

and the pictures before were taken in september .

we want them to win . we want to defend them .

nothing could be less materialistic , or more sentimental , than a teenager buying brand new jeans and tearing them at the knees , because he wants to please jennifer .

but the surprising thing is , it was n't always like this .

that 's where they recruit from . that 's where they get their power and strength .

well , this — ( applause ) — thank you . thank you very much .

`` this is max mathews and john kelly from bell labs in the '60s , where they created the song `` '' daisy bell , '' '' which was the world 's first singing computer . ''

as early as 2001 , we asked arabs , and muslims in general around the world , what they admired most about the west .

but actually many of the concepts are amenable to a much younger age group .

all of these things and far more are linked in your brain to your sight .

and we found that if your friend becomes obese , it increases your risk of obesity by about 57 percent in the same given time period .

jc : after nepal , we traveled to india .

there 's lots of hormones . there 's testosterone , adrenalin .

and by the way , mistrust was always very important for democracy .

so we took er-1 to the evaluation room .

it came to the author 's boyfriend in a dream .

( applause )

the government wo n't say who is imprisoned here .

as i read those early accounts , i realized it was precisely muhammad 's doubt that brought him alive for me , that allowed me to begin to see him in full , to accord him the integrity of reality .

vm : it was amongst the first ones in brazil , yeah .

`` sanford meisner was my uncle artie yelling silently to himself , `` something 's always wrong when nothing 's always right . '' ''

they 're all made of plastic parts that you ca n't customize .

this is la scala .

i must tell you , they 're an amazing — there 's a hundred people who work in that building — engineers , scientists , and other team members — all the time .

what is five billion dollars to the united states ?

and if any problems are spotted by the specialists there , a suitable course of treatment is recommended .

if i did n't love my wife , one tv would be enough : you will watch my favorite football game , if you are not happy , how is the book or the door ?

and breadwinners who are also caregivers have a much wider range of experiences and contacts .

by writing , be creating these interactive mother 's day cards , these kids were showing that they were really fluent with new technologies .

right now , talking to you , i 'm not even really a guy .

what you would see are thousands and thousands of kinds of biomolecules , little nanoscale machines organized in complex , 3d patterns , and together they mediate those electrical pulses , those chemical exchanges that allow neurons to work together to generate things like thoughts and feelings and so forth .

first , just like the electron is an excitation in the electron field , the higgs boson is simply a particle which is an excitation of the everywhere-permeating higgs field .

he 's barefoot . he 'll run back into his house , and he will contaminate his drinking water and his food and his environment with whatever diseases he may be carrying by fecal particles that are on his fingers and feet .

what should it be for ?

what if we have a matrix that says how many people changed their minds , and that becomes part of our social media experience ?

nobody 's in charge .

that 's hot enough to melt lead .

it was so big it looked as if it was going to take up half of the only room we had , and had so many pieces and wires that needed to be connected .

( laughter ) another functional work , it 's in the south side of chicago for a subway station .

the next big question is , what 's the cost ?

thank you very much .

one other thing you can do with such a thing is you can , because it 's a pattern matching exercise , because there 's unique fingerprint , we can actually scan through the entire genome and find other proteins that show a similar fingerprint .

size zero models still dominate our catwalks .

educational initiatives like dil and the citizen foundation that are building schools across the country .

we 're now riding along with voyager 1 .

i did n't carry on crazy catfish-style relationships with anybody .

it shows how to do right , how to be heroically awkward .

it 's full of panic and fear , and i 'd heard the women wailing and crying in the desert .

and then more of them got into it , and they became more interested in the project .

so it 's different from the motor prosthetics where you 're communicating from the brain to a device . here we have to communicate from the outside world into the brain and be understood , and be understood by the brain .

hugely successful .

it 's an ingenious system of six dots that are punched into paper , and i can feel them with my fingers .

you know what the problem is with you , homie ?

and i suggest that they have two options .

and so if it is justice that we are after , then i think we must n't focus on the media or on storytellers .

and then this happened .

i texted her . ( laughter ) i got an instant response .

we offer a two-year diploma to talented students who have successfully completed their high school education .

and what we noticed first is that between the youngest and the oldest group , about half the factors changed significantly .

what happened to our bread in the meantime ?

i think the polls are very bad guides to the level of trust that actually exists , because they try to obliterate the good judgment that goes into placing trust .

but saving is exactly the wrong thing to do from the system point of view .

thank you .

china 's building 300 new cities in the next 20 years .

tattoo artists , they do n't want it ; it 's not cool .

you ca n't be a feminist who 's also interested in fashion .

it 's crucial that all of us keep our commitments .

next , this is by thomas swifton .

the good news is that the same technology that allowed miniaturization of electronics is now allowing us to miniaturize biological laboratories .

`` `` '' how is that possible ? '' '' you may ask . ''

great white sharks are more confident than the tigers , and here you see great white shark engaging a control rig , so a black neoprene wetsuit , and going straight to the bottom , coming up and engaging .

i do n't like it .

it 's essentially about how we use our online relationships to get things done in the real world .

now if you ascribe to the god complex , what you do is you find yourself a little god .

my work spirals from the micro to the macro level , excavating hidden histories .

so i 'm going to talk about trust , and i 'm going to start by reminding you of the standard views that people have about trust .

and if not , stuxnet does nothing .

it was a notion that really came out of albert bandura 's work , who studied whether people could get a sense of empowerment .

and it 's worked , but it 's only worked partly .

it 's the way in which you can put things together in order to convey anything you want to .

because the most renewable energy we have is our own potential , and our own passion .

that 's what i wanted to do .

i do n't know if you 've noticed , but there 's been a spate of books that have come out lately contemplating or speculating on the cognition and emotional life of dogs .

now , these are n't just little points of light , little pixels .

sl : and that helped when amy was born , but you are so incredibly special to me and i 'm so lucky to have you as my son .

in other words , what do you mean , health problem ?

nevertheless , the mere mention of geoengineering is being greeted in some circles , particularly media circles , with a relief tinged with euphoria .

i used everything short of a drill to get oxytocin into my own brain .

in 2002 , the former secretary-general of the united nations , kofi annan , gave a speech at yale university , and that speech was on the topic of inclusive globalization .

the government calls these units communications management units or cmus .

google glass : อร่อยman 9 : mmm , อร่อย .

the dutch girls embodied everything we say we want from our girls .

we 'd known since the 1680s about bacteria .

i was never caught .

so i 'm going to play you a couple of those .

on our 10 year anniversary of being in the u.s. , we decided to celebrate by reserving a room at the hotel that we first stayed in when we got to the u.s .

there 's a lot of information here .

here , i 'm explaining how a computer uses the grammar of english to parse sentences , and here , there 's a pause and the student has to reflect , understand what 's going on and check the right boxes before they can continue .

there are certainly many more , but these are the ones that stand out to me .

and i mean books everywhere around the house .

ultimately , the goal , once we understand how these subtle effects can change our decision making , we want to be able to provide people tools so that they can consciously make themselves better savers and more conscious investors in their own future .

`` but i preferred , actually , the reaction of a schoolchild when i presented at a school this information , who raised their hand and said , `` '' how do we know that the person who made that number is n't one of the 49 percent either ? '' '' ( laughter ) so clearly , there 's a numeracy issue , because these are important skills for life , and a lot of the changes that we want to introduce in this century involve us becoming more comfortable with numbers . ''

it takes control of these cells , turns them into virus-making factories , and they all burst , a huge , extended bacteria family , all dying with viruses spilling out of their guts , the viruses taking over the bacterium .

and it does n't really matter where you 're from or what age you are — it 's really evocative .

this is a simulated image of a cluster in a nearby galaxy .

so to pull it all together , we need a mechanism that can actually generate other universes .

dh : it was ted .

so i 'd like us just to do , we 're going to do a little mental dance , a little , in this little one minute , so what i 'd love you to do is imagine , you can do this with your eyes closed , or open , and if you do n't want to do it you can watch them , it 's up to you .

they 're proteins that are controlling things like ion channel movement .

( applause ) bruno giussani : isaac , before you leave the stage , just a question .

political persuasion begins with being emotionally correct .

and you get a network that looks like this .

he toiled on and off for 16 years on the mona lisa .

are there any monkeys here ?

when the idea hit me of how to do this , i got kind of nauseous and dizzy , which is really just adrenaline , probably , but for me it 's a really good sign .

he talked in detail about travel .

so here we are . these are protocells , patterning their environment .

all wealth is actually created by business .

today , we started by talking about the boundary , but if we remove this boundary , the only boundary left is our imagination .

but anger as an engine — in an engine — is powerful .

what i want us to do is to keep up the science and even get more science in there but go to a kind of regional scale — not just in terms of the scale of the fields , but in terms of the entire food network .

it is about opening up .

this was an experience that stayed with us for a long time , and years later , my brother and i moved back to washington , d.c. , and we started to ask the question , would it be possible , in the same way that the gates responded to the physical layout of the park , to compose music for a landscape ?

i got a little bit excited that day , as you can see .

but we have to also consider that the crispr technology can be used for things like enhancement .

what does that mean ?

cr : i do n't know if we can do this , but we 've got the image of the cat .

it was looking for what astronomers call a transit .

it 's a tool used by those in power against those who have no power .

we realized , you can make him kind , generous , funny , considerate , as long as one condition is met for him , is that he stays the top toy .

we 're trying to change the metabolic milieu for other forms of cancer .

zesty .

and among them is arthur zang .

but the truth is that , on average , turning that gunk into crude oil produces about three times more greenhouse gas pollution than it does to produce conventional oil in canada .

like fundamentalists of all religious stripes , they have no questions , only answers .

is english a tsunami , washing away other languages ?

the list did n't work .

they 're ultra-low cost , and we all know what happens .

here we go .

my mission was always to create great public spaces .

the scores jumped to 50 percent .

so we take this just completely for granted .

many , many , many things go into the choices of countries , and they each make a different choice .

doctor : now ?

and i do n't imagine that you will realize this when you look at this photograph of him , but he 's paraplegic .

`` the mere fact that somebody would even just sit down , pull out a piece of paper and think about someone the whole way through , with an intention that is so much harder to unearth when the browser is up and the iphone is pinging and we 've got six conversations rolling in at once , that is an art form that does not fall down to the goliath of `` '' get faster , '' '' no matter how many social networks we might join . ''

for real , it 's very secret , he wo n't tell you about it .

this would make rapid diagnostics virtually painless .

i believe in you .

some of them are so nasty , they do n't bear thinking about .

with a prosthetic , yeah , which is the whole side of her head .

because these new technologies tell us not just who is talking to whom , but where everyone is , and what they 're thinking based on what they 're uploading on the internet , and what they 're buying based on their purchases .

a forest can be an integral part of our urban existence .

basically the stuff of life is natural capital , and we need to recognize and build that into our systems .

so i looked at the countries whose students perform well academically , and looked at what they 're doing to help their teachers improve .

we are used to invitations , but this invitation really thrilled us .

you can drill into a particular year .

in many places in which i have worked , it is easier to get access to an automatic rifle than it is to get access to clean drinking water .

thank you very much . ( applause )

and stakeholders with specific trade-offs will try to influence the decision .

he did not know each and every one of them , but with an admirable ingenuity , he managed to transform them into activists by giving them all the possibility to hold in their hands the arguments and the instruments that each would need to campaign in his name by making his own campaign .

how many lives could we save today if we decide to make a real start ?

so what 's important to remember ?

drop your ego .

this material actually has some traits that make it seem almost too good to be true .

and without galaxies , there are no stars , no planets and no chance for our form of life to exist in those other universes .

thank you , thank you , thank you .

they move to new york city .

i 'm going to talk about the simple truth in leadership in the 21st century .

and i 'd like to think if this was the case , they probably would have rehearsed it a few times .

we 've learned three big lessons about relationships .

so i 've been arguing in the last years that , in fact , the slums of tijuana can teach a lot to the sprawls of san diego when it comes to socioeconomic sustainability , that we should pay attention and learn from the many migrant communities on both sides of this border wall so that we can translate their informal processes of urbanization .

that raised a question : warps and curves in what ?

wrong .

and the thing about solar power is that it does n't have any feed stock or operational costs , so once it 's installed , it 's just there .

so here 's the question : can we grow axons and neurons down these channels ?

this is a before and after example . what do we mean with simplifying language ?

( applause ) and i 've developed a system to produce medical isotopes .

there was a traffic jam and a crowd of people gathered as if it were the location of some spectacular accident , or the sudden sighting of a visiting pop star .

and now it starts moving in three-dimensional space — so up or down .

we negotiate that through strategies .

in its simplest terms , imagine this teaching process as showing the computers some training images of a particular object , let 's say cats , and designing a model that learns from these training images .

what is wrong with our cities today ?

now , looking at these three reviews , or these three types of deception , you might think , wow , the internet is really making us a deceptive species , especially when you think about the astroturfing , where we can see deception brought up to scale .

but the really crazy idea is that our bubble is just one bubble in a much larger , roiling pot of universal stuff .

now everybody agrees .

`` i 'm a very serious `` '' possibilist . '' '' it 's a new category where we take emotion apart , and we just work analytically with the world . ''

you may never have heard of kenema , sierra leone or arua , nigeria .

and this is where i believe we can learn a lot from davinia , who started taking action as a global citizen back in 2012 .

this man ran across four lanes of freeway traffic in the middle of the night to bring me back to safety after a car accident that could have killed me .

nowadays , we do n't really recognize a book as something that sits on our shelf or music as something that is a physical object that we can hold .

it weighs less than a gram .

but people are often not thinking of something like this , which is the other end of the spectrum .

i rode in the trucks and walked the routes and interviewed people in offices and facilities all over the city , and i learned a lot , but i was still an outsider .

and was it even worthwhile to donate ?

and it still is .

for example , we did books — not for sale — that all the community would get .

and now , when we meld this with string theory , here 's the picture we 're led to .

and so the thought that i started with was how do you do this , still within the boundary of the science we know today — no time for science fair , no time for playing around with things or waiting for the magic battery to show up .

but here 's what most people do n't understand about oxytocin .

is it excreted in your kidneys ?

( applause )

this was my mother 's home , before she was mother .

last i heard we had 93 percent accepted to college .

furthermore , neurons are connected in networks .

what words look like , where paragraphs break , where lines break . i mean , i was n't so badly dyslexic that i was disabled from reading . i just had to do it really slowly , and as i did , lingering on those sentences as i had to linger , i fell heir to language 's other qualities , which i think has helped me write sentences .

and the profound realization for me is that , if this works , the concept of the selfish gene gets kicked up a level , and we really start talking about selfish matter .

this is an instrument that our engineers are actually prototyping right now in the lab , and this instrument is going to give us the engineering controls that we 're going to require in order to link 10 or more organ chips together .

but they were n't including any of these details .

but the general idea is that they all fit into this knowledge map .

but when politics is about us and our neighbors and other people in our community coming together to create experiences of collective voice and imagination , then we begin to remember that this stuff matters .

so a classic experiment here , in that what we did was we moved the sun .

when people say all politicians are the same , ask yourself if obama was the same as bush , if françois hollande is the same as sarkozy .

but i do think it 's only by stopping movement that you can see where to go .

you know , the world is really good at nano-fabrication .

live performance , when it was incredibly successful , ended up in what is probably , acoustically , the worst sounding venues on the planet : sports stadiums , basketball arenas and hockey arenas .

we forget how harsh his vision was .

( applause ) can i have a sip of water ?

( applause ) we 're delighted about it as well .

the second reason is : we think the problem is solved here in the us .

so the idea that we can smoothly transition to a highly-efficient , solar-powered , knowledge-based economy transformed by science and technology so that nine billion people can live in 2050 a life of abundance and digital downloads is a delusion .

it 's amazing how much emotion you can convey with just a few simple movements of a physical object .

just be who you are .

so if we want to get rid of oil-based transportation , we can , because we have options now that we did n't have before .

and importantly , it 's a rich source of vitamin b12 .

well , so i did tell the nurses .

so what i 'm going to try to tell you today is a different story about a claim , an aim and a task which i think give one quite a lot better purchase on the matter .

so i 'm not saying that we all need to live in 420 sq . ft .

as a photographer for national geographic , i 've portrayed it for many .

we need to think before we buy .

so in these examples , we are reaching into the digital world .

and any infrastructure you look at — whether it 's the length of roads , length of electrical lines — anything you look at has the same economy of scale scaling in the same way .

i 'm really in love with him at this point .

if we ca n't throw out the old stuff , we have no room for the new stuff , so then the engines of the economy start to sputter when consumption is compromised .

it does n't matter what you once were ; you ca n't do it anymore .

also , personal experiences with crime can do it , personal health scare , a health scare in the news .

i first found out about this confrontation when i was in graduate school , and it kind of blew me away .

`` it was a movement spearheaded by the quakers , and it only became popular when harriet beecher stowe 's novel `` '' uncle tom 's cabin '' '' became a bestseller . ''

the content does n't matter anymore , the problem is the media .

it 's natural for me . me and my friends , i can connect to them easily .

and as the world bank recently noted , women are stuck in a productivity trap .

we did n't have a group of epidemiologists ready to go , who would have gone , seen what the disease was , seen how far it had spread .

it was delicious , like , restaurant-quality good , except — she basically just threw the quinoa , pretty much uncooked , into the dish .

the question is , who will make them ?

i can call anyone , anytime .

so everyone of you turns to their neighbor please .

`` well , the course i was and am teaching is called cellular and molecular neuroscience - i . ( laughs ) it 's 25 lectures full of all sorts of facts , it uses this giant book called `` '' principles of neural science '' '' by three famous neuroscientists . ''

and then the process on shore takes around three or four days , and then , when it 's done , they put the manhole cover back on top , and they push the sand over that , and we all forget about it .

it could be interacted with large crowds in different ways .

now , monogamy used to be one person for life .

ca : definitely more expensive .

what did we do instead ?

but i think , you know what , i look at that , i made that public , and i got all this information .

they separate the parents from the children by promising to provide food , clothing , shelter to these children .

we found out that we could go to the source rock , which were the carboniferous shales in the basins .

over the past couple of months , the team at storycorps has been working furiously to create an app that will bring storycorps out of our booths so that it can be experienced by anyone , anywhere , anytime .

i must speak to you a little bit of my history , because we 'll be speaking on this during my speech here .

shalom . sat sri akal .

how does the reef work ? well , it 's very , very simple .

so let your haters hate , you know what , and make your change , because i know you can .

( applause )

in a way , it 's a toy , no ?

so the era of big infrastructure is over .

how so ?

it 's everywhere .

that 's quite a bit more than just a few mammals that we 're eating , like a cow or a pig or a sheep .

`` not sure what i 'm going to do yet , '' '' i told polly . ''

and i got excited .

among the many gifts my mother gave me was the ability to focus on the positive , rather than the negative .

`` we need technological strategists in the boardroom who can ask and answer the question , `` '' what would amazon or google do with all of this data ? '' '' and convert it to humanitarian good . ''

and that 's the kind of thing — the investment in the young — that makes us great , allows us to contribute .

( video ) man : so you 're here for one reason , and that reason is because you need your business competitors , rivals , haters , or whatever the reason is , or who , they are to go down .

many of these life-forms live in unusual ways .

first of all , let 's explain what the performance is .

and they swept it all up and put it into custody at police headquarters .

now here 's the problem , though : some people had long passwords that actually were n't very strong .

as soon as he got to the lab , even though he was the youngest , he immediately saw that there was a problem with the making of forged documents .

and instead of shoehorning democracy around the world , perhaps the west should take a leaf out of its own history book and remember that it takes a lot of patience in order to develop the models and the systems that you have today .

`` it is , '' '' he said , `` '' only a female molecule . ''

even african countries can achieve this .

so it 's probably an overestimate .

and using cognitive surplus , we 're starting to see truly incredible experiments in scientific , literary , artistic , political efforts .

everybody makes up a community .

and , yes , there are things like grameen bank and micro-lending .

and i wanted to know more .

how many athletic baby boomers need new hips and knees ?

so for a small animal dealing with a fairly revolting substance we can actually learn an awful lot from these things doing behaviors that you and i could n't possibly do .

raise your hand if you think you know .

but it turned out there was a technical twist to carol 's case .

so a gigaparsec is three billion light years — that 's the scale .

you know , i 'm making a very important argument .

but now they were like him : retired .

it was invented by russell smith , a passionate inventor in new zealand who was trying to help blind people .

i can love escalopes .

but that did n't happen .

this is not a request born out of a desire to fit in .

even combat veterans of previous wars who suffered from ptsd said that their symptoms went down after 9/11 happened .

and they see what 's going on .

and this is all exciting and good .

a lot of people say that communism was defeated by the rolling stones . it 's a good theory .

why ?

we can also get a gender breakdown .

but unfortunately , reality is not as good as my dreams .

i want to let you know it 's not going to be easy , and it was n't easy for me , because i faced a lot of obstacles .

and for some reason that day , instead , i asked myself a question , and it was , where does this stuff go ?

and all these colored lines here are results ; each color is one survey .

it happened to be over uc-davis ' campus in california when we turned the camera on .

so they organized a general strike , in which people throughout the country refused to work .

this is his handwriting on the morning of the treatment before going into the mr so now i 'll take you through [ what ] a typical procedure like that looks like , [ what ] noninvasive surgery looks like .

i 'm going into some details here , because [ the ] u.n. do it like this .

in fact , no , education spending should not be cut .

so we have a situation in the world today where in more and more countries the relationship between citizens and governments is mediated through the internet , which is comprised primarily of privately owned and operated services .

i mean , some people 's lives are just harder than others .

within four years we would be blowing everyone in the world away .

if you 're an average married couple , you 're going to lie to your spouse in one out of every 10 interactions .

the default image on the object would probably be a high-resolution earth image .

all during the school day .

they are telling their own story , bypassing the official narrative .

`` he 's obviously not joanne — so we 'll `` '' add user . '' '' evan . okay . ''

in part one , i 'm going to describe those nobel prize-winning results and to highlight a profound mystery which those results revealed .

it 's 3.2 tons .

and it 's wonderful , wonderful work .

and if i do this , probably the mic wo n't hear it .

as an academic , i was a mere reader .

so it 's extremely hard to do all of those additions .

this was a bit of a breakthrough .

let 's try that again .

these hormones are similar to hormones that we have in our bodies .

einstein described his scientific method as combinatory play .

or if in a family , why not in a state ?

`` `` '' oh , you 're saving my life . here 's my phone number . ''

and we started writing letters to everybody .

they sat me down . there are buttons and dials everywhere .

gg : americans for responsible solutions .

i found smileygirl1978 .

it 's shown being presented here , put into its case by the director of the national museum of tehran , one of the many women in iran in very senior positions , mrs. ardakani .

how does one live inside distraction ?

well , sex work is work , too .

so here on the y-axis , we have the percent of the people affected , and on the x-axis , we have time .

so let 's start with sunday .

now , in fact , they could n't do it for a lot of reasons today .

the idea was to take a piece of paper and fold it inside out using only your weaker hand , in my case , the left hand .

well , what did i do when i was a kid ?

it 's a perfectly great city .

that 's the idea behind the long news .

do you know what they call a 400 baseball hitter ?

daffodil hudson : hello ?

am : yeah , i definitely have to be moving , and balance is a little bit of an art in them .

and all those mega-barrels under detroit cost an average of 18 bucks a barrel .

whenever i get to travel for work , i try to find out where my drinking water comes from , and where my poop and pee go .

texting has a 100 percent open rate .

np : why do n't we give them a little peek , just a tiny bit of our jam session ?

this is , i think , the range that matters .

eighteen and 19 , the middle of the moleeds , 0.618 is the golden section .

because mother nature only has that much in ecological infrastructure and that much natural capital .

this was a completely surprising result .

but if you 're going to do anything about the dependency on foreign oil , you have to address transportation .

we are tech-arrogant .

these two examples , they have a common approach in the design process .

when you watch ballroom , do n't just watch what 's there .

fines and criminal records force people to keep selling sex , rather than enabling them to stop .

well , that 's what eventually became of mohammed , due to his inflexible prosthetic legs .

it became a book . it became a show .

so as you 'll guess , this is a hospital .

they would have been deeply dismayed by today 's disjunction between science and the rest of culture .

here 's an example of what i mean .

are we these novelty-seeking , hedonistic , selfish individuals ?

so here i get this call from this random guy that 's having an experience that 's being influenced by people at some social distance .

this was the beginning .

it 's unrealistic .

but what if we get it right ?

we 're about to enter a new phase of money .

it 's actually women piling into the job market in cultures around the world .

the projects i 'm going to show you today use the idea of building relationships as the key driver for design .

robert gupta .

and architect christian kerrigan has come up with a series of designs that show us how it may be possible to actually grow a limestone reef underneath the city .

with chad 's group at brown , i regularly fly drones around his lab several times a week , from my home 3,000 miles away .

so in short , i 'm startled by all the things that they do n't have .

this makes education unaffordable for many people .

this boy is called sadik .

jn : yes ?

instead , it silently slips into the bacteria 's own dna , and it just stays there like a terrorist sleeper cell , waiting for instructions .

you do n't need something more in order to get something more .

the next thing is , that virus dna made stuff that chopped up the bacteria dna .

and this black box moves around with you as you travel throughout the world , and it 's very , very stingy .

i hope it 's a story i 'm reading for many years to come .

here 's a modern example you will all relate to : searching the internet .

my name is debra brown .

make an effort to actually meet somebody .

you will have your fair share of insults and ridicule and threats .

and we will utilize all kinds of things — have a dance and social media and visiting on facebook and visit the website , sign the petition .

in other words : white people .

people from around the world started to send us emails , phone calls .

and we called all of the social investors we know .

over time , the buildings got taller and bigger , our engineering even better , so that the mechanical systems were massive . they require a huge amount of energy .

video : narrator : it 's about repowering america .

and on my seventeenth birthday , after my fake eye exam , the eye specialist just noticed it happened to be my birthday .

and i think in life it should be exactly like this .

and we could not find 25 girls in high school .

and they 're accessible . you can actually walk up to that pool and you can kill them there , right ?

so my final takeaway for you is that not only is the city good for the blind , but the city needs us .

people came from all over the city to be in these parks .

it 's still nice to do , but it 's a must-do .

'thank you for coming , steve .

i still had migraine headaches .

i 'm not sure myself what it means but it sounds good anyway .

to him , being paid would have meant being a mercenary .

and on the flip side , the people who race in are in such a frenzy of anxiety that they do n't have original thoughts either .

they 're absolutely everywhere .

it would also make us a more fair and just one , too .

what was the anatomy of my distaste ?

in order to do that , i set out to forge their signature .

so we need to think differently about agriculture science .

i worked in a team of incredibly talented , compassionate , but most importantly , highly trained , specialized mental health professionals .

( applause )

an asteroid hits , and the world went down in flames .

this is all happening with excess capacity .

and the future , for them , does n't look particularly promising — in fact , it 's downright bleak .

and this substance may seem invisible to us , but it has a physical reality .

well , what 's that got to do with this ?

it 's about my vision .

but , this is not the beginning of the 20th century .

`` we heard from a man out of zimbabwe , who , after hearing about heforshe , created a `` '' husband school . '' '' ( laughter ) he literally went around his village , hand-picking all of the men that were abusive to their partners , and committed to turn them into better husbands and fathers . ''

and so they went and studied 10 daycare centers in haifa , israel .

what one thing can you start counting today that actually would be meaningful in your life , whether it 's your work life or your business life ?

and with accommodation , they went on to college and had a full life in terms of their opportunities .

this ca n't possibly continue to go on .

the positive perspective , i think , of all of this is that , if we do understand when we go wrong , if we understand the deep mechanisms of why we fail and where we fail , we can actually hope to fix things .

why were n't we learning about these women ?

and these trend lines , you can see , there 's more questions than answers in the laws of physics , and when we reach the end of a sentence , we place a star at that location .

cryptography underpins so many of the systems around us .

and our individual realities were aired with an unfiltered purity that could n't do any less than lighten the soul .

( laughter ) the reality is , in western countries , quite often we do focus on the pursuit of happiness as if happiness is something that we have to go out — an object that we 're supposed to get , or maybe many objects .

( laughter ) consciousness . i see all your faces .

is it metabolized in the liver ?

and it 's got this funny horn-shaped thing , which as far as i know , again , the first cookbook to ever do this .

we have n't demonstrated this in humans yet but maybe it 's just a matter of time before we find out . ( laughter ) so microbes are performing a huge range of functions .

music led me on a path of searching for what seemed like the unattainable for a very long time .

in brazil , election day is a festive , carnival-type atmosphere .

aj : i 'm really cute .

but the earth is very , very old .

they then go on to create an event , and beyond that , a foundation to support that .

so when i get despondent about the state of sanitation , even though these are pretty exciting times because we 've got the bill and melinda gates foundation reinventing the toilet , which is great , we 've got matt damon going on bathroom strike , which is great for humanity , very bad for his colon .

( applause )

they do n't own those facilities .

if you look at the registry , actually , a lot of the registered things in the e.u .

they increase the amount of dopamine .

but how about reversing its role and having the digital information reach us instead ?

at this point , i 'm very happy that there 's a parachute out .

year two : learned a few things — had to change my tactic .

i believe we need to bring the humanitarian world from analog to digital .

he 's a very successful serial entrepreneur who spends a huge amount of his time helping other people .

people have had a hard time getting their head around that idea for millennia .

here 's one of his bestselling books .

and then i 'm over here in san francisco , and everyone around me was doing it .

but how do we optimistically lead through it ?

thank you very much .

it 's important to focus on a goal , i think , but also recognize the progression on the way there and how you 've grown as a person .

the thing is that you need a very powerful light source to do this .

these mechanical performers were popular throughout europe .

so america had a mid-20th century that was really bipartisan .

but i just think of so many occurrences like the time he went on the oprah show and asked her what the show would be about .

while i was there , i collected images and inspiration for a new body of work : drawings of waves lapping on the coast of a nation that could be entirely underwater within this century .

in the '40s , costa ricans were given free education and free health care .

and the rest of both runs factories .

how would we grow these cells ?

well it requires software , it requires hardware and it requires chemical inks .

she had vast quantities of very shiny hair and a cute little pencil case , super strong on state capitals , just a great speller .

if we could unroll it , get out all the folds and so on , it would have 400 sq . meters of surface .

take , for example , the sound of a gunshot .

there 'll be jobs , lots of jobs .

he told himself it was necessary to make them from scratch .

he actually took his braces off himself with pliers in the garage , when his father admitted he did n't have money to go back to the orthodontist .

and so i decided to use it as my time frame to try to read a novel , short story collection or memoir from every country in the world .

but what we 've learn is that these biases might be a deeper part of us than that .

the implications are huge .

what you see is that these bars are systematically taller and systematically shifted to the left compared to these bars which are the members of the oecd that speak futured languages .

if you want to change the world , you have to group together , you have to be collaborative .

two women together , they have an argument .

rs : that one is joshua 's . that 's right .

we have feeling , model , reality .

the mothers are n't quite convinced .

the us government .

i 'll come back to that later .

we had all sorts of help from all walks of life .

`` he says , `` '' a woman whom we need , who makes us suffer , elicits from us a gamut of feelings far more profound and vital than a man of genius who interests us . '' '' is he telling us to just go and find cruel women ? ''

pm : installing solar panels on the top of her house , i have to say .

skip over all the pages reassuring religious people .

di : now i walk in love .

( applause )

and these are not characteristics of old media , and they 're barely true of the media of today , but they will define the entertainment of the future .

we 've tried to build in retrieval practice into the platform , as well as other forms of practice in many ways .

and if that were successful , that would be the first example of reading a memory from a connectome .

technology has a role to play .

we heard here yesterday quyen talking about the adverse event trait in prostate cancer .

and then you have all those individual stories where sometimes we even have the same action , and the result puts you in hells or in heavens .

well do n't talk rat , but we have a clicker , a standard method for animal training , which you see there .

`` they 'd say , `` '' here you are . here you are . '' '' ( laughter ) and `` '' you can trust us . '' '' so something felt very wrong about the world . ''

( laughter ) you have given birth to an abomination .

the co-pilot was a lady called monica .

the change in oxytocin predicted their feelings of empathy .

ss : for 45 minutes . luckily , the hotel was terrific .

we can now leverage microfluidics , like this chip made by steve quake at stanford .

many sociologists like veblen and wolfe would argue that the reason why we take origins so seriously is because we 're snobs , because we 're focused on status .

together , efficient use and diverse dispersed renewable supply are starting to transform the whole electricity sector .

( laughter ) but that little story is really about the fears and misconceptions that come along with the idea of moving through the city without sight , seemingly oblivious to the environment and the people around you .

and those properties of softness and hardness and darkness and clearness do not reside in the carbon atoms ; they reside in the interconnections between the carbon atoms , or at least arise because of the interconnections between the carbon atoms .

he argued that it was inconsistent with the principles of rational government .

and we want all internet users or internet site owners to make their sites compatible so that we persons without vision can have a level playing field .

it does n't matter today if it 's your photo or not .

it would wait until you logged into your bank account .

and this time even a greater number , 83 percent of the people , voted with blank ballots .

`` in fact , their report states , `` '' unfortunately , we do not have much data on the passwords users choose under particular rules . ''

`` so i said , `` '' forget that . i 'm the new governor . ''

i would n't know .

this is how our world is now connected .

and he again had to travel to the school to get the information from the teacher , stored it in the only portable memory he has , which is inside his own head , and take it with him , because that is how information was being transported from teacher to student and then used in the world .

that 's understandable , but our experience with met suggests that if teachers manage the process , if they collect video in their own classrooms , and they pick the lessons they want to submit , a lot of them will be eager to participate .

( laughter ) so i think the puzzle model does n't work .

growing up , i had a nickname .

( applause ) that is a lot of punch for 14 words .

my whole right side was ripped open , filled with gravel .

you do n't plan the details , and people will figure out what to do , how to adapt to this new framework .

so one day i stayed a little late after school , a little too late , and i lurked in the girls ' bathroom .

i 'm joined by singers from cal state long beach , cal state fullerton and riverside community college , some of the best amateur choirs in the country , and — ( applause ) — and in the second half of the piece , the virtual choir will join us , 30 different singers from 30 different countries .

we need to shine light to see what we 're doing .

and if we answer it , and it 's positive , then life is everywhere in the solar system .

but now all of a sudden my job is very different , and my job is to be out here talking about it , talking about introversion .

so there 's a lot of sentences , so a lot of stars , and after rendering all of the audio , this is what we get .

but still we have a large deficit in dealing with and understanding modern conflict .

if this turns out to be the year , that the partisan thing changes , as you said , it 's no longer a partisan issue , but you bring along people from the other side together , backed by science , backed by these kinds of investment opportunities , backed by reason that you win the day — boy , that 's really exciting .

( laughter ) and i loved game shows , fascinated with game shows .

you know why ? because they ca n't swim here .

so we have this special theory of evolution that applies only to organic biology , to us .

that is what a language can get you .

we have never understood it .

our agenticity process comes from the fact that we can enjoy movies like these .

but even through all the frustrations , i still believed it could be beautiful .

so how are we doing this in the lab ?

we live in a culture where being fat is seen as being a bad person — lazy , greedy , unhealthy , irresponsible and morally suspect .

rats have been used since the '50s last century , in all kinds of experiments .

it still did n't have the raw experiential power of pure music for me .

so here we are , in a scary but not inexplicable moment of demagoguery , fracture , xenophobia , resentment and fear .

new word .

to others , i was the tragically brain-damaged boy who had grown to become a man .

another change for the better is that we now have specialized retirement facilities and programs to take care of old people .

older people usually are the leaders of traditional societies , and the people most knowledgeable about politics , medicine , religion , songs and dances .

and they should make sure that when you walk into a museum — if i was a museum curator , i would make a room for love , a room for generosity .

`` he said , `` '' i think the most important thing to happen in 2006 was that living and thinking green hit main street . ''

and he wanted to do this as a matter of principle .

they do n't have a bucket or a box .

the very idea , all these collective nouns that we have been taught about — nation , class , family .

hopefully , the war will end , and the question that , as an architect , i have to ask , is : how do we rebuild ?

so we only could afford to build a two-block section of what would become a mile-long esplanade , so whatever we built had to be perfect .

his name is paulie , and we worked together many times , and we became good friends .

so sand is about a tenth of a millimeter in size .

it 's around about 770 grams of carbon .

but for that , we already have the training manuals , which are approved by the ministry and moreover , this approach is now part of the mental health strategy in afghanistan .

i guess it comes down to our education system , so i 'm going to talk a little bit about ignorance and education , because i think that 's where it really has to play out .

bees apparently , can be the gateway to , you know , other things .

in that case , bear in mind three things .

people in the center , like me , started feeling helpless .

they usually left school when they were in 7th or 8th grade .

the serious scientists involved in this research all stress that these techniques are entirely untested .

but the reason why i am interested in the transition of the higgs field is because i want to address the question , why is the higgs boson mass so special ?

i mean , there would be an advantage to experiencing our emotions inside , you know , anger or happiness .

there is a new type of river , which originates in the blue sea , which flows through the green ocean — it not only flows , but it is also pumped by the green ocean — and then it falls on our land .

so is it that , though they make perfect economic sense , we do n't do them ?

i struggled a bit with the initial period of homesickness .

`` if you hear nothing else today , please hear this : there are not `` '' schizophrenics . '' '' there are people with schizophrenia , and these people may be your spouse , they may be your child , they may be your neighbor , they may be your friend , they may be your coworker . ''

`` he 'd say , `` '' i 'll call . '' '' he would n't call . ''

now , it 's really convenient that spiders use their silk completely outside their body .

and one reason is , this enormous heat sink heats up greenland from the north .

whether it 's a woman or a man .

freely name any card in the deck .

`` and i ran up the stairs , and there was one of my favorite books of all time , `` '' travels on my elephant '' '' by mark shand — i do n't know if any of you know it . ''

so every time you pulled on a t-shirt , or switched the light on , or went to the bathroom , or sometimes all three together , you were reminded sustainability was about compromise .

so what we have actually , it 's not an omnivore 's dilemma .

that said , i do n't wish to be seen as regretting the life i could have had if i 'd not been mentally ill , nor am i asking anyone for their pity .

magic tricks , i think they 're instructions , sort of like recipes : no copyright protection .

now let me show you some of our latest results .

`` ( music : `` '' my funny valentine '' '' by chet baker ) this is chet baker . ''

if america can deliver pizza to an area of this size , then africa 's companies , governments and non-profits can deliver farm services to all of her farmers .

oh , my god !

or will they someday chuckle over our graves ?

i have been a police officer for a very , very long time .

we feel much the same way about other conflicts around the world .

consider this : there are seven times more people alive today than during darwin 's time .

we can turn data into a time-lapse view of a global economy in motion .

first of all , they can give employees and customers more control .

it 's like shakespeare : respect it , revive it — great !

`` i get asked all of the time from people , `` is it possible to really design microbial ecosystems ? '' ''

so for one , let 's face it , in the age of google and wikipedia , the business model of the university and probably secondary schools is simply going to have to change .

these animals have within them the latent capacity to live much longer than they normally do .

( laughter ) and one of our canning cutaways .

( music ) ( applause ) kb : thank you so much for letting me share some images of our magnificent , wonderful earth .

so , it 's a normal-looking syringe .

the drawings are much richer .

i use these scores to collaborate with musicians .

`` `` '' well — '' '' here my friend hemmed and hawed — `` well , actually it 's a catholic hermitage . '' ''

you can see my grandmother there .

presumably , modern humans emerged somewhere in africa .

and this victory is so possible .

100 years later in kalaupapa , we now have the technology to sequence leprosy bacteria in real time , using mobile genome sequencers , remote access to the internet and cloud computation .

so is everything lost ? well , maybe not .

what do they need to know ?

ca : would humanity become a space-faring civilization ?

then one plus two is three , two plus three is five , three plus five is eight , and so on .

i met conor on a cold , rainy january night .

maybe we 're not the right people to do it .

and i keep on going , i take some more pictures .

it 's kind of hard to imagine the unbelievably magical feeling that you have when you get in this space .

what i 'm showing you now are unpublished studies , where we used human plasma , young human plasma , and as a control , saline , and injected it into old mice , and asked , can we again rejuvenate these old mice ?

`` and the one thing he said every day that most seemed to give people reassurance and confidence was , `` '' i do n't know . '' '' `` what 's going to happen to tibet ? '' ''

so it 's a real-time thing . it 's much quicker . it 's happening on a constant basis , and the journalist is always playing catch up .

i knew people who were several years on the job whose bodies were still adjusting to the burden of bearing on your body tons of trash every week .

`` you know , people tell me , `` '' yeah , those charter schools , a lot of them do n't work . '' '' a lot of them do n't . they should be closed . ''

the poet rainer maria rilke was offered psychoanalysis .

that when it comes to the rich , we 'll bail out and we 'll hand a lot of aid , but when it comes to our poor brethren , we want little to do with it .

others , around homelessness in london , around youth and employment and education elsewhere in the country .

and let 's start to speak up when people are assailing us with the noise that i played you early on .

and they have to do that even if the net blocks the breeze , even if they might have to get up in the middle of the night and relieve themselves , even if they might have to move all their furnishings to put this thing up , even if , you know , they might live in a round hut in which it 's difficult to string up a square net .

ted sarandos and his team made that decision to license that show , which also meant , by the way , that they were taking a pretty big personal risk with that decision .

within south africa , we 've got about 800 species of dung beetles , in africa we 've got 2,000 species of dung beetles , and in the world we have about 6,000 species of dung beetles .

do you believe that women can be a creative genius ?

obviously , you can experience the fantasy of magic and control the world with your mind .

we use storytelling and art to bring them to life .

can we predict skin color ?

shhhhhhhhhh .

it 's getting closer and closer , and in 20 ...

i ask my wife to come , and i tell her , you have to see that .

we were saying no to something that was very important to them , challenging their code of honor , and hurting them deeply in the process .

( applause ) chris anderson : now this is actually a courageous talk , because you 're kind of setting up yourself in some ways to be ridiculed in some quarters .

now what happened was , in february 2008 , leah and her husband were waiting for a cab to take them out for dinner , when kobe came trotting up to them and he was salivating with saliva .

i 'll play as fast as i can .

all the major religions give us calendars .

so whether you find yourself in the middle or on the edge is also partially heritable .

well , in 1945 , supreme court got a chance to address that question .

jn : well , i 'm actually in three places .

the musicians played off a three-dimensional graph of weather data like this .

and exactly the same as humans would do , they spontaneously recovered to a certain extent , exactly the same as after a stroke .

so we had to find a way to rule out aliens .

and if i wanted to paint on people , well , i was a little bit embarrassed to bring people down into my studio and show them that i spent my days in a basement putting paint on toast .

today i 'm going to start with eight to show you how the method works .

they all have played their role .

but there is good news .

how could a disease this common and this devastating have been forgotten by medicine ?

so this is , i think , the first kosher hippocratic surgical system .

it does n't matter how you are or what the day is like .

`` and we had a lot of fun , and in 2004 , i said to the guys , `` '' that was so much fun . we need to legitimize this so we can get away with it year on year . '' '' ( laughter ) so we started thinking about that , and we were inspired by the women around us and all they were doing for breast cancer . ''

and after three more hard , really brutal field seasons , the quarry came to look like this .

so if we want to tweak the color , we just enter the color mode , and then we get three different dials for tweaking the color , or if we want to adjust the audio , then we get two different dials for that , these physical objects .

what is evolution ?

so in one level it went from something like 13 dollars to 266 , literally in the space of four months , and then crashed and lost half of its value in six hours .

would n't this be easier for me if i could roll this home ?

this is what 's really cool : it 's aging more slowly .

those societies also show you that breadwinning and caregiving reinforce each other .

let 's not minimize the differences . that would be really naïve .

`` and the worst message we ever got said exactly this : `` '' he wo n't stop raping me . ''

this image shows those paths , all the hurricanes that have been recorded .

because of her bravery and passion , i 've had all the opportunities that she never did , and that has made my story so different .

now , it 's no surprise that when you add consecutive fibonacci numbers , you get the next fibonacci number . right ?

today , i 'm going to talk to you about sketching electronics .

no , i made it for the long jump and the 100-meter .

so this sets up this beautiful natural experiment where we can look at the genes behind our vision , and at the very roots of how we can see .

the thing that was a source of shame was actually a source of enlightenment .

then they care about big issues like climate change .

you can see that dark , opaque panel on the front , and it 's particularly better for the surface , where being backlit and providing a silhouette is problematic .

and if you do n't think you look good in something , you 're also probably right .

the continents drifted . the mammals rose .

his vision was pretty poor .

it had a speech synthesizer .

would i change ?

now , to give you an idea of scale , if the needle was shown here , it would be too big .

narrator : fundamentals of laparoscopic surgery .

once van meegeren was on trial , he could n't stop talking .

then we teach them to be a surgeon in training .

get out there and see what people really want .

so one thing that we did , and i 'll give you an example of looking at the language , is we paid people to write some fake reviews . one of these reviews is fake .

now , where do we go from there ?

there 's a basic equation that we ca n't get away from .

and the reason is , these nanomaterials — they 're like a double-edged sword .

they were mostly reacting to my accent , that it is not normal for a narrator to have an accent .

what 's happened with sex over time is — normally , sex equals baby , eventually .

well we understand this very well .

so a newspaper becomes out of date as soon as it 's printed .

one or two euros was enough to make 20 percent of cars disappear from rush hours .

its largest recipients were germany and france , and it was only 2.5 percent of their gdp .

i find it helps actually to look at the dump trucks that move the earth , the largest ever built .

so once i decide on my view and the location , i have to decide where day begins and night ends .

they sometimes store grain in it .

the more output you churn out , the more variety you get and the better your chances of stumbling on something truly original .

the second challenge is the actual device for observing brainwaves .

how is it managed ?

it 's like this . you trigger the spot .

the wall of shame is something .

this is the epidemic in mozambique . this is an epidemic in northern tanzania .

i 'll give you an example from my own lab , my own particularly smelly question , since we work on the sense of smell .

in response , my colleagues and i set up a clinic .

and so this really shifts the human/plant dynamic , because a single house plant can actually express its needs to thousands of people at the same time .

i think you need to separate the basics of what you 're trying to do from how it gets done and the machinery of how it gets done and automation allows you to make that separation .

so what goes wrong ?

in other words , for superrabbits , reputation has a real world value .

and so this is what we embarked upon .

we had malaria in those countries for hundreds of years , and we got rid of it completely , not because we attacked malaria . we did n't .

and again , in peterborough , we started off with a program , but we also collected data , and over the period of time , we nuanced and changed that program to add a range of other elements , so that the service adapts and we meet the needs of the long term as well as the short term : greater engagement from the prisoners , longer-term engagement as well .

a decision like where do i go to school ? what should i major in ?

so first , with all of my heart , i 'm sorry if my son has caused you pain .

wk : i think it will produce more than 20 the watts .

( applause ) dk : it turns out , maybe not surprisingly , that students like getting the best content from the best universities for free .

it 's a wisdom understood by duke ellington , who said that his favorite song out of his repertoire was always the next one , always the one he had yet to compose .

george church thinks you can .

the second is columbus finally gets funded to go to india , but he gets lost .

thank you very much .

i have a couple of young kids at home , and i knew that the only way they were going to get to know this person who was such a towering figure in my life would be through that session .

we 're all one family .

then i felt television really was about displays .

vivid , symbolic artwork is being created by our servicemen and women , and every work of art tells a story .

together we can make our beds , our dinner tables and our families the safe and peaceful oases they should be .

the first one is the mass restoration of ecosystems .

( applause )

`` it made me feel ashamed to see people that were this close to me that were hungry , and this only reinforced why i do this , and people asked me , `` '' fin , are n't you afraid people are going to steal your food ? '' '' and i 'm like , `` '' hell no , i ai n't afraid they 're gon na steal it . ''

( bird call ) i wake up to this every morning , like a disney princess .

this fourth manufacturing revolution is a chance for all of us .

well , at 10 seconds per 3,000 cars , that 's 8.3 hours per day . the average wage in the u.s .

historically , the barbershop has been a safe haven for black men .

but i 've replaced the audio of one of the videos , and instead of the sound of rain , i 've added the sound of bacon frying .

they wanted us to think critically .

it 's hard for people to leave bad reviews .

freedom , which means without permission from anyone , the ability to create .

i work with biologists .

and then , come back .

we can make a difference , and make a difference , not just for women , but for a global economy that desperately needs their contributions .

and there 's hundreds of them .

now , our sun will not collapse to a black hole — it 's not massive enough — but there are tens of thousands of black holes in our galaxy .

you 'd stay until , at some point , the jail would be booked to capacity , and they 'd want to book someone new in .

it was n't enough for me to join a slam competition , and while those things hold weight , it was n't the driving force that pushes the pen to the pad .

i know the response to this .

now that 's why most of the people that work with children with autism — speech therapists , educators — what they do is , they try to help children with autism communicate not with words , but with pictures .

they have weekly study groups , where teachers get together and talk about what 's working .

`` i 'm a little nervous , because my wife yvonne said to me , she said , `` '' geoff , you watch the ted talks . '' '' i said , `` '' yes , honey , i love ted talks . '' '' she said , `` '' you know , they 're like , really smart , talented — `` '' i said , `` '' i know , i know . '' '' ( laughter ) she said , `` '' they do n't want , like , the angry black man . '' '' ( laughter ) so i said , `` '' no , i 'm gon na be good , honey , i 'm gon na be good . i am . '' '' but i am angry . ( laughter ) and the last time i looked , i 'm — ( applause ) so this is why i 'm excited but i 'm angry . ''

and president medvedev of russia , for example , pronounced in 2008 this was the beginning of the end of united states power .

from the youngest of ages , we display a prodigious sporting talent .

how should we view the bible ?

there 's many people working on it .

that was filmed from a helicopter using a gyro-stabilized camera .

and we also sampled the outdoor air .

they 're helping each other do it .

mastery is not a commitment to a goal but to a constant pursuit .

they were allowed to return to jerusalem and to rebuild the temple .

you do n't know if it 's a scrape . you do n't know if it 's a re-upload .

after keeping company with him as a writer for the past five years , i ca n't see that he 'd be anything but utterly outraged at the militant fundamentalists who claim to speak and act in his name in the middle east and elsewhere today .

then i went to run 50k , then 60k .

so what did they do ?

women , and increasingly men , who are starting to speak out and push back against sexual violence on the streets and in the home .

we still clutch close these letters to our chest , to the words that speak louder than loud , when we turn pages into palettes to say the things that we have needed to say , the words that we have needed to write , to sisters and brothers and even to strangers , for far too long .

`` and this too requires investment , investment — for example , in places — places where we can connect , places where we can participate , shared spaces , concert halls , gardens , public parks , libraries , museums , quiet centers , places of joy and celebration , places of tranquility and contemplation , sites for the `` '' cultivation of a common citizenship , '' '' in michael sandel 's lovely phrase . ''

if you want to forward an email thread , ask for permission .

on the left , you can see the sub1 variety , and on the right is the conventional variety .

i mean , that 's a pretty deceptive space .

i did research and volunteered to help with fund-raising events , and whenever i could , i talked with those who had survived their own suicidal crisis or attempt .

so users control their data .

but this is a fallacy .

so you may ask — ( applause ) you may ask me , well how do you know what our energy future is ?

you 're the adult .

and it 's an attractive and beautiful future , if only we can make it happen .

there 's a firefighter that 's stuck , actually , in traffic , and so the firefighters themselves are running a mile and a half to the site itself with upwards of 70 pounds of gear on their back .

the impossible crate illusion .

but here 's where it gets really interesting .

`` you can ask questions like , `` who lived in this palazzo in 1323 ? '' ''

health extension workers can help with so many things , whether it 's family planning , prenatal care , immunizations for the children , or advising the woman to get to the facility on time for an on-time delivery .

the fact is that , if i tried and it did n't work , then i could make a statement about how unwilling the global community is to unite — until , it was in somalia , picking up that young girl .

i can guarantee , everyone in this room , all of you over there , the people in the cushy seats , the people up top with the laptops — we all have bodies .

still another traditional value of older people is in making tools , weapons , baskets , pots and textiles .

pm : what 's the best part of working with your mother , and the most challenging part for you ?

you can step on the scale .

`` he showed him , `` '' you know , we do n't have to do this wrong . ''

in those days , we were living in a very small , one-roomed house in karachi .

in large parts of the world , higher education is unattainable for an average citizen .

`` so this is called stilting . it 's a thermal behavior that you and i do if we cross the beach , we jump onto a towel , somebody has this towel — `` '' sorry , i 've jumped onto your towel . '' '' — and then you scuttle across onto somebody else 's towel , and that way you do n't burn your feet . ''

this is probably true .

i would watch nova on pbs .

towards the front of the brain is the place in which all of the more complex thought , decision making — it 's the last to mature in late adulthood .

but a standard industrial pumping loop was redesigned to use at least 86 percent less energy , not by getting better pumps , but just by replacing long , thin , crooked pipes with fat , short , straight pipes .

and that stimulation can be achieved by finding things that are exciting : loud noises , parties and social events here at ted — you see the extroverts forming a magnetic core .

i 'm doing time here . this is not my home .

but after a while , this wears off .

because if they knew what they were signing , they 'd know that as soon as the interest rate started to rise , the monthly payment would also increase , they would n't be able to pay anymore and they would end up without a house .

country by country , international organizations , the european union ?

but a lot of people do n't ask .

they 've been keeping track of everything , almost like google today .

flocks that were a mile wide and 400 miles long used to darken the sun .

what is the decision point ?

we all know about the albert einstein who came up with e = mc2 .

this is the most negative partisanship election in american history .

so what is a story ?

i had zero minutes of exercise yesterday , so my maximum heart rate during exercise was n't calculated .

as somebody who has always believed in the importance of the stuff that we know , this was a terrifying idea to me .

they also determine whether or not other drugs will work for your heart condition .

its head is down . it 's walking backwards .

i also learned about the relentlessness of trash .

so what do we have to do ? we have to give our students a taste for the boundaries , for what 's outside that circumference , for what 's outside the facts , what 's just beyond the facts .

and he was talking about the importance of coaching boys into men and changing the culture of the locker room and giving men the tools to have healthy relationships .

and the only way to film that is a shoot from the air .

it was taken by kevin carter who went to the sudan to document their famine there .

what that meant : that if you stayed out of trouble you 're going to stay alive .

our sewers are crumbling .

her two little boys , not so little anymore , but her two boys were both at school , separate schools .

( applause ) a friend of mine complained that this was too big and too pretty to go in the kitchen , so there 's a sixth volume that has washable , waterproof paper . ( applause )

and i think it 's important that people in that kind of position do make a difference .

that , i would say , was my spark moment .

so this person 's making different faces , and it 's actually drawing forth different objects from the collection that connect with exactly how she 's looking .

only 13 percent achieve a reasonable level of five gcses at 16 , against 58 percent of the wider population .

there 's no big room to create reverberation and confuse the rhythms .

there are spots on the paper that are sticky .

why do these things have to be so expensive ?

( applause )

the point about democracy is intrinsic .

i started thinking about how a new , fast method of learning chinese might be useful .

they come in a bewildering variety of different kinds .

so in the first-case scenario , we re-implanted the cells in the normal brain and what we saw is that they completely disappeared after a few weeks , as if they were taken from the brain , they go back home , the space is already busy , they are not needed there , so they disappear .

man : future 's over here . wind , sun , a new energy grid .

and then maybe , just maybe , we 'll all realize that our big differences are n't really that big after all .

now , you might say , beetles , sure , they 're very simple creatures , but surely not mammals .

we 've had them before . we know what it 's like .

now archie was a doctor , so he hung around with doctors a lot .

and then in march of 2011 , we see this .

`` so this was an xkcd cartoon from a couple of years ago , and the cartoonist suggests that we should all use pass phrases , and if you look at the second row of this cartoon , you can see the cartoonist is suggesting that the pass phrase `` '' correct horse battery staple '' '' would be a very strong pass phrase and something really easy to remember . ''

so we went a little wider .

so they outnumber us 10 to one .

one kilogram of grasshoppers has the same amount of calories as 10 hot dogs , or six big macs .

but now here 's the thing : our technology has actually been pretty good at replicating what the visual system does .

because of quantum tunneling , i could disappear from this room and reappear in the next room , practically penetrating the wall .

`` you look back over your successes over the year , your `` '' opportunities for growth . '' '' and this serves its purpose , but i find it 's more effective to do this looking forward . ''

( laughter ) solly on the bank sees that i 'm in trouble .

so , starting with the political philosophy .

when you have nanotechnology and nanoscience , what 's occurred is that we 're able to now look at atoms and molecules and actually control them for great benefits .

we need to confront this fear .

i know we can fix the news .

and when you look at the news through that filter , a lot falls by the wayside .

it 's not good for you in the long run .

i was a lonely kid .

so he suffered from essential tremor for many years .

we created an emotional reaction to these forms .

nt : tell me , what will man do when the forests disappear , and the coal deposits are exhausted ?

but anyway , whether they say they 're right or whatever , we have plenty of natural gas .

ten percent are in combat .

i 'd been doing this every night i 'd been there .

today , our culture is flourishing .

in other words , it 's useless .

there 's no problems .

as a kid , i would puzzle over questions just like this .

meanwhile , back in babylon , things had not been going well .

the source of the virus could be a natural epidemic like ebola , or it could be bioterrorism .

`` `` all right , but you 're going to go in full time once you graduate . '' ''

and then 80 percent of the world already eats insects , so we are just a minority — in a country like the u.k. , the usa , the netherlands , anywhere .

after the transplant , we began to spend more and more time together .

the animal could be a cow , lamb , or even something more exotic .

or will you be able to resist the temptation to turn on a gps spoofer or a wave bubble to protect your own privacy ?

and then i was also surprised by the city 's propensity for kindness and care as opposed to indifference or worse .

to find food , mothers must lead their cubs down to the coast , where the snow will already be melting .

and this is a mapping application for disaster response .

how was that possible ?

so we knew again about this crisis .

and yet , we spend virtually nothing to prevent something as tangible and evolutionarily certain as epidemic infectious diseases .

i want you to use these tools .

hairdos , no copyright protection .

it brings that character inside of your personal space , a space that we 'd usually reserve for the people that we love .

despite what they thought , i did feel .

( laughter ) if you are happy , you are going to attract other happy people to you .

we can imagine a future of abundance .

we need to be able to target which areas really should be re-greened .

this is a design by philippe starck , who i believe is in the audience at this very moment .

when you step off the curb and you see a city from behind a truck , you come to understand that trash is like a force of nature unto itself .

effectively , this is the brainwashing process that has begun .

i set out to write a compelling economic story , one that had great characters , that no one else was telling , and one that i thought mattered .

thank you .

thank you .

and the way that it works is that to get those bitcoin , i have to solve a puzzle — a random cryptographic puzzle .

when i talk about his death as a suicide , i 'm not trying to downplay the viciousness he showed at the end of his life .

and i guess the one variable that i have n't considered is the competition .

they pin a medal on his chest . he goes home to a ticker tape parade .

the first thing i thought was the programmer way of doing it .

they just need to know that they got paid .

similarly , we 're told that creative genius resides in the masculine , that it is the masculine that will be able to tell us about who we really are , that the masculine will tell the universal story on behalf of all of us , whereas women artists will really just talk about women 's experiences , women 's issues only really relevant to women and of passing interest to men — and really only some men .

here you see actually how the damage appears in this material .

it 's such a simple question , but these days , of course , simple questions bring ever more complicated answers .

then , finally , the landing day .

these bubbles are made from natural cotton and rubber from the rubber tree .

and in this dimension , they are incredibly small .

indeed , with the 2008 financial crisis , many people said this was the beginning of the end of american power .

because fielders are successful 90 to 95 percent of the time .

imagine that .

for example , anything that spreads by a form of social contagion could be understood in this way , from abstract ideas on the left like patriotism , or altruism , or religion to practices like dieting behavior , or book purchasing , or drinking , or bicycle-helmet [ and ] other safety practices , or products that people might buy , purchases of electronic goods , anything in which there 's kind of an interpersonal spread .

it was beautiful . they lifted me into the cockpit .

it is not black and white , as conservatives would have us believe .

i mean , you just have to do it .

so think about a cop .

`` the head nurse told me proudly , `` you see , our children are very well-behaved . '' ''

if the vaccine is too warm the vaccine breaks down , but interestingly it can be too cold and the vaccine can break down as well .

you can listen to a podcast about what it 's like to grow up dalit in kolkata .

in this movie , you can see that the tumor is green .

how do you design that nozzle ?

`` they should be in hospital . '' '' and there 's this uproar , and all the doctors start pounding the table and saying , `` '' we always said you were unethical , archie . ''

today 's question is : why ?

and rather like numeracy , this is not just an english problem .

they may have to be dealt with with military means , but they can not be solved by military means .

why does our society continue to be polarized and dominated with selfish politics of dominance and exclusion , by both men and women ?

we 'd say it like this : one : how do we find people ?

i mean , think about wall street .

and unfortunately , as you get into that , people get confused and think , well maybe you think that 's okay .

you can do that with an electric car because of its responsiveness .

`` most world leaders did n't take notice , and those that did thought this was just `` '' buddhist economics . '' '' but the king was serious . ''

this is the power of nudges when trying to solve complex social problems , and when you do that , you should n't try to tell people how to adapt .

well as you know , genes , which are part of the dna , they 're instructions to make a protein that does something .

( laughter ) but then very quickly , i started to underestimate my mustache growing ability , and it got way too big .

and if you appreciate that number , you can easily see there is huge potential for mis-wiring of the brain .

it can be rejuvenated .

so in october 2011 , i registered my blog , ayearofreadingtheworld.com , and i posted a short appeal online .

and this is why that’s not entirely a good thing : because over the age of 65 , your risk of getting alzheimer’s or parkinson’s disease will increase exponentially .

well , we are here .

`` i go back on my texts , and i can see `` '' jt ! jt ! '' '' my sister texting me . ''

in fact , my mother told me eventually that i was the little kid in the village who cried all the way to school .

this is an unconsolidated ground that is suffused with liquid methane .

but you can see actually they are further down this list , and that 's because we 're talking here about disability .

that 's not what we found .

new york state is one of only two in the u.s .

what 's going to make the difference here is what dean kamen said , the inventor and entrepreneur .

the unhealthy shame i 'm talking about is the one that makes you so sick inside .

now , i want you to imagine that i 'm stroking it with this .

it can be used to monitor the hearts of patients in remote , rural areas .

so is it really terrorism that we 're stopping ?

please keep your seat .

i am both black and a woman .

across all of these diverse lands and cultures , the institutions , and the child 's journey through them , is depressingly similar .

and they were n't savanna species .

they did not foresee at least one consequence of their revolution .

but this story only happened a few years ago .

and we need a lot of sunlight in this troubled world .

but it has changed the world .

they know what they 're supposed to be doing , but they 're not doing it .

`` at some point , he just said , `` '' 40 million people are going to see you today . ''

who could not see him rounding a corner , the blue tip scratching against rough-hewn beam , the sudden flare and the creature , for one bright , shining moment , suddenly thrust ahead of his time — now a fire-starter , now a torch-bearer in a forgotten ritual , little brown druid illuminating some ancient night ?

i often spent my days positioned in front of the tv watching barney reruns .

but here 's the truth .

so there were nine of us that signed that one-dollar contract .

i was an athlete . that 's all i knew . that 's all i 'd done .

not surprisingly , they were a little bit reluctant to share them with us , but we were actually able to work out a system with them where they put all of the real passwords for 25,000 cmu students , faculty and staff , into a locked computer in a locked room , not connected to the internet , and they ran code on it that we wrote to analyze these passwords .

and this is n't just tom friedman , it 's actually provable in case after case after case .

so in fact , experimental economists had run this test around the world , and for much higher stakes , and the consensus view was that the measure from the first person to the second was a measure of trust , and the transfer from the second person back to the first measured trustworthiness .

so it 's a small tablet , has many holes in it , and compressed air comes out , so it can actually draw images .

this year , there are going to be millions of our children that we 're going to needlessly lose , that we could — right now , we could save them all .

now , extinction is a different kind of death .

but also , there are other businesses already acting .

and on my seventeenth birthday , my parents , knowing how much i loved speed , gave me one driving lesson for my seventeenth birthday .

thank you so much for presenting . sb : thank you .

he was trying to tell people how they should live through the medium of sermons , the classic medium of delivery of religions .

we 've got to show our values .

as the shape of the built environment changed , so the lifestyles and sense of belonging of the communities also started changing .

they truly perform as they transform through time and as communities negotiate the spaces and boundaries and resources .

my dear fellow citizen : i write to you today , to you who have lost in this era .

elliott and nathan .

and i thought — whoa .

it was so bad .

`` someday i want to meet that woman when i 'm stronger . '' '' i was still in deep grief ; i knew i did n't have the strength . ''

they use the natural resources to build their houses , to thatch their houses .

( laughter ) ca : ed , some questions for you .

and we have this mythical image of how life was in rural areas in the past .

what i want you [ to do ] now is to see with your own eyes the relation between fall in child mortality and decrease in family size .

we predict his eye color .

`` that 's the shooter i saw that killed the father . '' '' that was all a preliminary hearing judge had to listen to , to bind mr. carrillo over to stand trial for a first-degree murder . ''

in the face of so much hatred and ignorance against those in the middle east , every moment on site felt like a protest for peace .

so they 're looking at the generic attitudes that people report when you ask them certain questions .

we are looking at the emergence of a car 2.0 — a whole new market , a whole new business model .

now , you may be wondering , ok , tabby , well , how do aliens actually explain this light curve ?

why i 'm here is to tell you that the next step is really the exciting part .

so with our marching orders from the president himself , we embarked on the purest of the scientific method : collecting data — all the data we could get our hands on — making hypotheses , creating solutions , one after the other .

i did have a video i wanted to show quickly on that that we actually found .

they would have a small computer connected to the internet in their pocket .

but for me , it was the abstract shapes , what we call geometric signs , that drew me to study the art .

or is it just some weird shadows on the tree ?

we stopped planting clover and alfalfa , which are natural fertilizers that fix nitrogen in the soil , and instead we started using synthetic fertilizers .

less than two percent . about 1.4 percent of the population , as far as anyone knows , did anything , either making a space in their basement or actually building a bomb shelter .

why is it that business leaders and investors quite often do n't see the connection between creating the intangible of employee happiness with creating the tangible of financial profits in their business ?

do something different . what do you want to be ?

so we take the bold step of putting the cholesterol information on the same page , which is the way the doctor is going to evaluate it .

the same is true every time as i started thinking about information .

it 's about all of us .

how does that compare to a normal school ?

it 's really just for the sort of joy of its own triviality .

( applause ) it 's not just about products in people 's homes .

now i 'm not for one minute suggesting it 's the only kind of question that should be asked in exams , but i think it 's a very important type that right now just gets completely ignored and is critical for people 's real understanding .

we 're here , none of us fear the roof is going to collapse on us , not because we checked , but because we 're pretty sure the building codes here are good .

oyster reefs also covered about a quarter of our harbor and were capable of filtering water in the harbor in a matter of days .

and two tools helped bring the death rate down .

so , spectral imaging can recover lost texts .

in fact , understanding why cooking works requires knowing the science of cooking — some of the chemistry , some of the physics and so forth .

and it 's called music .

but they always stop and take a picture .

now out of that pie , the government spends 36 percent .

and this has n't just happened .

misfit people — we do n't always know how to hope or say yes or choose the big thing , even when it 's right in front of us .

all right , thank you , thomas .

this has happened in the netherlands in the 1990s during the classical swine fever outbreak .

weird .

and let 's talk about jobs .

we did n't even expect to find things this beautiful .

crumbling world , word , voice .

we attach a transducer , in this case , to the brain , but if it will be a different organ , it will be a different transducer attached to the patient .

i knew them both .

you know , how to prepare you for your first relationship ?

because we kind of have to — we 're just compelled to .

there may be even talk of war in places that were certain they were done with it .

we hear the chaos of war . we hear terrorism .

my head was cut open across the front , lifted back , exposing the skull underneath .

`` one , because playing `` '' jeopardy '' '' is a great time . ''

so however we do it ...

`` he was like , `` '' be careful going down this path . ''

it has this mission : to change the way how public communication is made .

`` it 's called `` '' the apples of new york '' '' and this is the second volume . ''

these are now technologies that are hitting critical mass .

so if you think of cancer as a weed , we often can whack the weed away .

`` this is `` '' disappear . '' '' so what you want to do — at least with movement-based actions , we do that all the time , so you can visualize it . ''

what you 're actually measuring is spelled out in clean language .

add 64 , we get 104 .

globally , we 've now signed up citizens in over 150 countries around the world .

( cheer ) thanks .

none but ourselves can free our minds .

but i had been commuting for two years between washington and princeton , new jersey , where my husband and my two teenage sons lived , and it was not going well .

`` `` '' come on buddy , i have the toe clippers right here . ''

so we then look to do this with pairs of individuals , starting with two africans , looking at the two african genomes , finding places where they differ from each other , and in each case ask : what is a neanderthal like ?

billie jean king : hi , everyone !

i even did it when i was secretary of state .

now if you look at the cost of opec , it cost seven trillion dollars — on the milken institute study last year — seven trillion dollars since 1976 , is what we paid for oil from opec .

well , that 's because fish , first of all , float .

the first , an unbelievable amount of luck .

it represents hope . it represents potential .

( laughter ) so the last mechanical turk project i 'm going to talk to you about is called bicycle built for 2000 .

accidents are expensive and costly .

would you like to create a second one together ?

and why would we stop there ?

and transportation , let me tell you , has become an existential issue for us costa ricans , because the model we have is not working for us .

i began my career as a news journalist and foreign correspondent .

first , lying online can be very dangerous , right ?

what this imam did was to connect her back to god and to her community .

that 's when language begins .

now with all this beauty , usefulness and wealth , mathematics does look more sexy .

co-branding opportunities .

and so we just started imagining , what else could happen in this building ?

how did we become so indifferent to these crimes ?

every time you see from now on a pregnant lady , she 's assembling the biggest amount of information that you will ever encounter .

the math is not all that advanced , and really it 's like nothing more than solving a sudoku puzzle .

but a lot of them — maybe what 's bothering them is actually a kind of alienation .

this is just nuts .

i am told every day , by every face i see , every wall i face , that i am wrong .

cochineal is a product of an insect that lives off these cacti .

`` i can stand up and do something . '' '' `` `` the joy of voting '' '' project is n't just about joy . ''

you interact with them .

what if society actually needs terrorism to change and adapt for the better ?

and yet black holes may be heard even if they 're not seen , and that 's because they bang on space-time like a drum .

and that 's the area again .

now here 's the deal .

i 'm here today to talk about a disturbing question , which has an equally disturbing answer .

turn around , and they fall over . it 's a serious problem .

if we 're above that line it 's considered protective ; if we 're below that line it 's not .

now the big brain did this also with cooking .

i picked up one of those statistics , and i 'm sure some of you have seen those statistics before .

i have no relationship with the united states , all 50 of them , not really .

how can the nervous system get this so wrong ? how can the nervous system

teen prostitution is at its peak .

thank you .

but with that lens , you have to be as close as 10 inches from the person .

it 's now been fda approved , and it 'll hopefully be on the market in the next year or so .

but you could go out someplace brand new , build a brand new apartment building , as long as the rules there were ones that facilitated construction rather than getting in the way .

meanwhile , i was getting ready to give a talk at tedglobal .

you are not told about the incredible improvements in understanding .

`` you can earn 60 euros . is n't that great ? yes or no ? '' '' no reply . like , a huge proportion of them could n't be bothered after they had just started , they just signed up , to reply . ''

i was trying out so many different combinations of this .

i 've tried engaging people .

but for ratings , a crucial element of our economy , we really do not know what all the different ingredients are .

forgive me , for i know not what i do . ' eventually , i broke down in front of friends , and everybody convinced me to take more medication .

in fact , with edx , when we were teaching our first course on circuits and electronics around the world , this was happening unbeknownst to us .

we have to go to interactive virtual laboratories and gamification .

that 's compared to approximately eight percent for touch and two to three percent for hearing .

and it 's getting very close to what they call the winner 's cloud .

learning the information that has accumulated over time and reading the message left by my ancestors were better than any consolation therapy or piece of advice any living adults could give me .

remove the second tv .

let 's try something else , maybe something a bit more relevant to today .

infrastructure is going to be affected .

not protecting anyone against invaders or occupiers ; not bringing relief to the oppressed .

and it did .

at free america , we 've done a listening and learning tour .

they came day after day and they covered the square with millions of flowers .

i had moved to new york city for my first job as a writer and editor at seventeen magazine .

we know health services matter .

but here 's something that should keep you awake at night : the probability that your company will not be around in five year 's time , on average , is now a staggering 32 percent .

and there are hints of this .

it 's a ridiculously complicated machine that does something really simple , like crack an egg or shut a door .

together , let 's kickstart this global movement .

not especially responsible , not especially reciprocal and not especially enjoyable .

so i showed this to the clubhouse member — let 's call him victor — and victor , when he saw that this block would let him increment the score , he knew exactly what to do .

you think of carbon as black .

`` we just have to persevere . '' '' now four com isaf 's later , we hear a different message : `` '' this can not be won militarily . ''

bj : so this production was seen by tom morris of the national theatre in london .

the first time i met min , she had just turned 18 and quit her first job on the assembly line of an electronics factory .

i think it 's because you 're hearing something authentic and pure at this moment , when sometimes it 's hard to tell what 's real and what 's an advertisement .

and he will , or she will , calculate the optimal design of the nozzle .

and around that space , the ring is actually galleries .

how does this work ? well , two ways .

and this is a really emancipatory and political contribution to peace and reconciliation .

roy price is a man that most of you have probably never heard about , even though he may have been responsible for 22 somewhat mediocre minutes of your life on april 19 , 2013 .

as you grow during childhood and age during adulthood , your personal identity changes slowly .

this is n't going to be settled for years .

the second shock hurts just as much , and the third and the fourth and the fifth .

so let me conclude with just a remark to bring it back to the theme of choices .

i believe that we know this , yet we find ourselves trapped in a kind of narrative loop .

and it was the birth of the global world .

and it had to rethink its identity .

it 's important that we know this .

sustainability has gone from a nice-to-do to a must-do .

now we may not agree with what religions are trying to teach us , but we can admire the institutional way in which they 're doing it .

but we usually have to wait until the person dies to get the brain and look at how it really changed through age or in a disease .

and with the right kind of help , maybe one day i could get better .

when does this breakdown begin ?

`` as in this cryptic sentence i found in the guardian recently : `` '' the marriage suffered a setback in 1965 , when the husband was killed by the wife . '' '' ( laughter ) there 's a world of invisibility there , is n't there ? ( laughter ) ''

number one , i do n't have an indian accent , i have a pakistani accent , ok ?

do n't give them four , give them two plus two .

they gather together , and they show their joy .

and here we want to start simple .

and that to me was a bad start to the afterlife , having to witness your own funeral and feel gratified .

they considered all the usual culprits , and in less than 24 hours , they had selected their suspect : francisco carrillo , a 17-year-old kid who lived about two or three blocks away from where the shooting occurred .

voice : ... to the grass , and it 's very important that you adapt and you , you have to be flexible , you have to be willing to change direction at a split second , and she does all that . she 's won this title .

i just was so — how do i tell him ?

and i was afraid , because i did n't want to paint anymore .

that 's emotional correctness , and that 's how we start the conversations that really lead to change .

and it 's extraordinary how far belief can take you .

it took about 17 minutes to do a single page .

i 'll give you one , a syringe .

okay ?

so let me show you , and i 'm going to start with the standard method first .

it 's a protein that shows up when your blood vessels might be inflamed , which might be a risk for heart disease .

now there 's often no right or wrong here .

these are two other pictures of soup , but you can see that these are more abstract these are not quite as concrete .

let me give you an example .

two great examples are drugs , prozac and wellbutrin .

you 're in a wheelchair . that 's normal .

now , things have been going pretty well .

but there 's another important way that we learn about the world : that 's by interacting with it .

but what fascinated me more is that maddie 's curiosity took her to a new level .

( applause )

and the question is , who do you want to remember — if you had just 45 minutes with your grandmother ?

the density of black starts to blur umber .

take thermostats , for instance .

( applause ) bc : thank you . ( applause )

so the people kept it .

they can seem isolating and inward .

they have a lot of scenarios .

and if you 're wearing clothing , you 've taken off your clothing , you 're going to get showered down some place and remove the radiation that would be — the radioactive material that might be on you .

they take the weekends off .

the base of those petals has to go to the same place every time to within a tenth of a millimeter .

everyone is just a little bit mad .

let 's have some risks .

so we could make different cities , cities that will give more priority to human beings than to cars , that will give more public space to human beings than to cars , cities which show great respect for those most vulnerable citizens , such as children or the elderly .

and as you look at what went on , the problem was n't that there was a system that did n't work well enough , the problem was that we did n't have a system at all .

let me tell you a little bit about savings rates , a little bit about language , and then i 'll draw that connection .

we can also license these mooc courses to other universities , and therein lies a revenue model for moocs , where the university that licenses it with the professor can use these online courses like the next-generation textbook .

now you are just looking at about 7.4 billion people with the map drawn in proportion to those people .

it was an amazing feat .

and that 's exactly where we are .

but attitude , aging is also attitude and health .

this is another one from the woods .

so we have this kind of dual nature .

dailypath that offers inspiration put inspiration on their 404 page .

`` `` '' manal al-sharif breaks down and confesses : 'foreign forces incited me . ' '' '' ( laughter ) and it goes on , even trial and flogging me in public . ''

faiza was living proof of this .

i 've done my grieving about the loss .

and they pasted [ over ] every single portrait of the dictator [ with ] their own photos .

and then after he got my car working again and got me back to safety and made sure i was going to be all right , he drove off again .

now i was a comparative literature major in college , which is like an english major , only instead of being stuck studying chaucer for three months , we got to read great literature in translation from around the world .

it goes on and on and on , all these values , all these numbers you do n't know .

this is an interface that actually allows you to draw and then draws forth objects using those same shapes .

because sometimes these questions do n't have easy answers .

in fact , in 2040 , it 's still estimated that 200 million people in china will not have access to clean cooking fuels .

by the time i was 18 , i had a deep passion for books .

so this is a timely problem .

and it made me really think about how the achievement was getting there .

and my parents ' understanding of god as a merciful and beneficial friend and provider shaped the way i looked at the world .

the images that i took were just a number to many kenyans .

this was a fiction born of my fears , but i believed it .

now , the book sat on a small shelf next to the installation , which stood three by seven meters , in munich , germany , in september of 2010 .

in argentina , an open-source platform called democracyos is bringing participation to parliaments and political parties .

and as soon as i found that word , i realized that i wanted to devote much of the rest of my life to it .

over 200 people died .

the state is not a great parent .

and here are the ducks again .

so someone who says they hate immigrants , i try to imagine how scared they must be that their community is changing from what they 've always known .

`` one who official at the time actually called that whole campaign `` one of the greatest mistakes ever made in public health . '' ''

so we set about going to work on this video , and the only thing that we had to go on was the username on the youtube account .

right ? ( laughter ) where you say , like , '87 was like a good year , right ?

that 's not even close .

so we disconnect the ethernet cable to create an air gap , but again , like merely human hackers routinely transgress air gaps using social engineering .

but we dance with a consciousness that this is a historic form that can produce silence and produce invisibility across the spectrum of identity that we enjoy today .

so even if you 're an extrovert yourself , i 'm talking about your coworkers and your spouses and your children and the person sitting next to you right now — all of them subject to this bias that is pretty deep and real in our society .

but painting was where i made the rules .

the ones that see women as having less intrinsic worth , and of men having some unspoken and symbolic claim to their bodies .

how should you start ?

social change does n't happen in the arab region through dramatic confrontation , beating or indeed baring of breasts , but rather through negotiation .

she 's 19 ; her dream is to go to college to be able to support them .

what were scientists called before ?

in the 1900s when they first came out , they were really simple to use .

we need an infrastructure dynamic enough to handle these seismic shifts in our population .

who have you got in mind ?

they 'll put it in makeup .

`` ( laughter ) ( `` '' 10,000 missiles '' '' ) this is the context . this is where we are now in israel . ''

they implicated actually , the spanish government , amazingly .

it was after midnight .

and how does that compare to the people you work with ?

sebastian thrun : now i ca n't get my friend harold back to life , but i can do something for all the people who died .

let 's set up a system and put lots of money into it and then people will do it no matter what .

in this photo , everything looks very finished , but that granite edge , those lights , the back on that bench , the trees in planting , and the many different kinds of places to sit were all little battles that turned this project into a place that people wanted to be .

they did not invent car-sharing .

takes about $ 300 , by the way , in the neurologist 's clinic to do it .

and so this is an effective strategy that can be used for grading at scale , and is also a useful learning strategy for the students , because they actually learn from the experience .

what we know , what we have proven , is that this conversation needs to happen today — not next week , not next year .

here 's one of our field sites , and just to give you a sense of perspective , this little blue smudge here , that 's one of my collaborators .

because perception leads to your response to it .

and for far too long , we have underestimated ourselves and been undervalued by others .

so she cooked pasta because she wanted to make sure she cooked something she knew her children would eat .

she was got because she was perceived to have misused her privilege .

it 's about disillusionment .

these things are way smaller . they 're much more adaptable .

this is essential for our own brains , and it 's also pretty useful on a computer .

so , maybe too much . so , here we go , ready , and — ( clicks metronome ) ( clicks metronome ) nice , good job . yeah ? okay . ( applause ) okay , not bad . ( applause ) a little bit more ?

it 's a function of their climate .

how can we balance on the one hand addressing fear and alienation while on the other hand refusing vehemently to give in to xenophobia and nationalism ?

and it 's a kind of microcosm of the globalized world .

maybe we are learning the art of embracing .

`` and it would have `` '' hand '' '' in that it would be greatly crafted . ''

try it with your kids . see if it works . ( laughter ) i do n't think so .

( applause )

now , in a shelter in an urban area means you have to be either in a basement as deep as possible , or you have to be on a floor — on a high floor — if it 's a ground burst explosion , which it would be , higher than the ninth floor . so you have to be tenth floor or higher , or in the basement .

it is clear that the world today is much more dangerous than it was .

back to the powerful applied applications .

i never had met someone with such a hard life , from such a totally different culture and environment from my own .

it was capable of iteration , conditional branching and parallel processing , and it was programmable using punched cards , an idea babbage took from jacquard 's loom .

there were obviously financial sacrifices because he always refused to be paid .

and the reason for this is because of networks .

i also learned that bone marrow transplants are fraught with danger .

and we have among states a reluctance in dealing with them .

so the area is also eight times 13 .

and , partners who were sexually indifferent find themselves suddenly so lustfully voracious , they do n't know where it 's coming from .

after all , if ideas about invertebrate skeletons can give us insights about mammalian reproductive systems , there could be lots of other wild and productive connections lurking out there just waiting to be found .

it was a dimly lit shack .

but war is n't the only reason that life is difficult in the drc .

some people nodding yes .

we have arrived at a fundamental contradiction .

some dancers , when they 're watching action , take the overall shape , the arc of the movement , the kinetic sense of the movement , and use that for memory .

it 's not enough to say you have two nobel laureates from the republic of liberia when your girls ' kids are totally out there and no hope , or seemingly no hope .

( applause )

the daniels family , for example , set up a dna lab in the basement of their suburban chicago home .

but we 've actually invested very little in a system to stop an epidemic .

`` george box , who was an english statistician , once wrote , `` '' all models are false , but some models are useful . '' '' and in fact , this model is obviously false , because in reality , meerkats are anything but random particles . ''

why study the ancient past ?

if we can get under that heavy self , light a torch of awareness , and find our essence , our connection to the infinite and every other living thing .

this period , though , was also marked by widespread nonviolent organizing in the forms of strikes , sit-ins and the creation of parallel institutions .

now i know this is different than the way most people think about science .

`` so the basic idea of i.p. , or internet protocol , and the way that the — the routing algorithm that used it , were fundamentally `` '' from each according to their ability , to each according to their need . '' '' and so , if you had some extra bandwidth , you 'd deliver a message for someone . ''

sometimes these might self-assemble in your gi system and be augmented in that reality .

abortion is common .

`` i sent him to the store , which was my first mistake , and he went to buy underwear , and he bought the grippers , and he 's supposed to buy the boxers . '' '' `` why ? '' ''

these are real !

and he postulated a suggestion that there 's this infinite , incredibly small field stretching throughout the universe , and as other particles go through those particles and interact , that 's where they get their mass .

and one thing that i really enjoy doing is making these little animations where i get to do the voice-over for all kinds of characters .

this is the venue where , as a young man , some of the music that i wrote was first performed .

we were not yet talking about the effect of trauma and war on the human psyche .

let 's just get started , okay .

right now there is an aspiring teacher who is working on a 60-page paper based on some age-old education theory developed by some dead education professor wondering to herself what this task that she 's engaging in has to do with what she wants to do with her life , which is be an educator , change lives , and spark magic . right now there is an aspiring teacher

we respond to stories more than data .

how can we discuss solutions to one of the biggest threats to the lives of women and children around the world , if the very words we use are part of the problem ?

`` but you 're going to get home and realize how different life is . '' '' and i got home and something happened . ''

i 'm , among several other things , an electrical engineer , and that means that i spend a good amount of time designing and building new pieces of technology , and more specifically designing and building electronics .

you 're telling each unit if it should turn right or left .

in san francisco , before uberpool , we had — well , everybody would take their car wherever the heck they wanted .

with that in mind , i set about teaching edi a magic trick .

and how many of you think that b is ?

they use political violence to intimidate , physical violence to terrorize and mental or emotional violence to undermine .

( applause )

and that will stop reusing a syringe 20 or 30 times .

i think of the difference of google video versus youtube .

first of all , we started off the nuclear age in 1945 .

one of the funniest blogs on the web is written by a friend of mine named smartass cripple .

it turns once per day in synchrony with the earth .

i hope you are too .

and even lying paralyzed in the spinal ward , there were moments of incredible depth and richness , of authenticity and connection that i had never experienced before .

but it 's not just for small transactions .

( applause )

some of it 's helpful . a lot of it 's kind of reversed .

we can look inside with real time fmri — in the brain at real time .

needless to say , i did n't fall in love .

`` the word `` '' rape '' '' did n't echo around my mind as it should 've , and i was n't crucifying myself with memories of the night before . ''

believe me , he did n't mean this as — anyway , let me just read it .

arup believes that the culture of helpfulness is central to their success .

teach for america : slight effect .

but i wonder , do they ?

if the ultra-dense higgs state existed , then , because of quantum tunneling , a bubble of this state could suddenly appear in a certain place of the universe at a certain time , and it is analogous to what happens when you boil water .

but one week , a couple months ago , i got a question that was actually about google .

three-fourths of our electricity powers buildings .

less than half a century ago , two courageous men landed on the moon , using computers that were less powerful than the phones in your pockets .

so why , why are so many billions still stuck in such harsh poverty ?

( video ) wall-e : eva ?

( applause ) thank you . thank you very much . thank you .

so one of the problems with some of the studies that we 've done is that because they 're all done using mechanical turk , these are not people 's real passwords .

this year , two billion dollars worth of loans will go through peer-to-peer lending platforms .

by the end of the course , they take the final exam , get a grade , and follow to the next course .

but that math liberation did n't get into education yet .

rng : so , do you think it 's human nature that 's changed ?

this was our sign — it 's hand-painted , and we had 45 all over kabul .

`` after she got it , `` '' she was happy to report that she has discovered that he possessed a double who was rich , virile , handsome and aristocratic . '' '' of course , it was the same man , but she was seeing him in different ways . ''

but now , notice there are two ways of seeing the cube , right ?

( laughter ) it is . it 's just stuck in this position , so i have to wear a two-inch heel .

he pointed by , and this is what the judge saw .

`` i first started really understanding this storytelling device when i was writing with bob peterson on `` '' finding nemo . '' '' and we would call this the unifying theory of two plus two . ''

now when you look at where is the transfer of wealth , you can see here that we have the arrows going into the mid-east and away from us .

this raises a number of ethical questions that we have to carefully consider , and this is why i and my colleagues have called for a global pause in any clinical application of the crispr technology in human embryos , to give us time to really consider all of the various implications of doing so .

do you have it ?

but we were able to do it , we got all the kits made , thanks a lot to techshop , which was a big help to us , and we shipped these kits all over the world just before christmas of last year , so it was just a few months ago .

it 's not one side or the other that 's going to win out , but both .

`` a really important thing to keep in mind — there 's research by political scientist alan abramowitz , showing that american democracy is increasingly governed by what 's called `` '' negative partisanship . '' '' that means you think , ok there 's a candidate , you like the candidate , you vote for the candidate . ''

they have figured out how to peel off the tire , how to thread it and interlock it to construct a more efficient retaining wall .

and it 's similar with new technologies .

and they 're tiny . they 're the thickness of a hair .

we do n't just add nutrition directly to the soil .

this topic of resilience is very personal to me and in many ways has shaped my life .

i 'm a product designer by trade .

and you can see , it 's kind of pollinating , germinating , growing .

justin bieber becoming president of the united states ?

so she campaigned for cleaner , lighter , airier clinics to be designed and built .

take a look at this little tuft of capillaries .

that 's the equivalent of 40 million us dollars .

but unfortunately , there are several disadvantages to the way photocatalytic sodis is currently deployed .

they are on the receiving end of laws which punish their activities , even their appearance .

so , you can see from these diagrams that the protocell is actually moving away from the light , toward the dark foundations .

now , we all know that wolves kill various species of animals , but perhaps we 're slightly less aware that they give life to many others .

there is n't much doubt , is there ?

a friend of mine has a slogan ; he 's another poet .

and i discovered why you 're not supposed to do that .

no one seems — aside from autonomous warfare robots — nobody seems to have launched a similar discussion in those fields , in calling for a moratorium .

how can you reach inside and interact with the digital information using the full dexterity of our hands ?

if you want to get at the big part — i mean from a public health level , where my training is — you 're looking at behavioral issues .

it 's a clue that the early universe is not chosen randomly .

hence the eternal problem of love : how to become and remain desirable ?

and we are so close .

and so we launched the citizen science project called planet hunters to have people look at the same data .

so last year , on the fourth of july , experiments at the large hadron collider discovered the higgs boson .

do n't they deserve to be living in fear of arrest ?

there , in spite of his situation , he graduated high school with nearly perfect grades .

it 's a complete denial of mistakes .

so you take a look out in the real world , and the fun thing is you can actually hack these yourself .

but donna 's biggest supporter came from an unexpected place .

they are plinths for their creations .

what materials did you use ?

we 're getting practical , doable methodologies to answer my question : how do we deal with a bully without becoming a thug ?

barack obama won — ( applause ) — because he mobilized people as never before through the use of social networks .

so this makes quantifying silk properties by methods such as tensile testing , which is basically , you know , tugging on one end of the fiber , very amenable .

it 's not .

in a way that i think would have been impossible without the pink sèvres vase in my leonardo days .

it is n't this kind of vague promise that it 's going to work no matter what , but you get the statistics for how effective it is .

( applause )

this must be a global conversation .

but mostly ...

they get integrated into the muscle .

it 's a question of what the citizens do .

and the only people in there is a bartender and an old man nursing a beer .

or should we use something else ?

it enables testing of new ideas in a way that 's less difficult for everybody .

it 's an underwater world we 're all exploring together .

now movies proved to be the ultimate medium for magic .

but then again , it took us a long time to put the wheel and the suitcase together .

and on monday , they announced that they had found it .

so this can be used for making amazing things , like super-fabrics for industrial and medical applications .

that 's an option that about 75 percent of syrian refugees have taken .

now , our classrooms could use change .

scientists use rovs to explore the oceans .

it 's now time for us to watch the watchers .

thank you .

and then think of how large that very small section of one mine is .

she was two thirds of the way there , but in the storm , the waves were the size of a seven-story building .

it accepts algae and detritus in one end , and through this beautiful , glamorous set of stomach organs , out the other end comes cleaner water .

i read somewhere that you should try and be the person that you needed when you were younger .

so we thought differently .

we could ask every restaurant , every supermarket , where their meat comes from .

nl : benefit in that it gave me that springboard .

it 's called reconstructed memories .

we did n't create jobs for our youth .

my fundamental message to you is this : we can not continue to try and solve the world economic growth challenges by being dogmatic and being unnecessarily ideological .

we hear about sectarianism and all this horrible negative news that comes to us all the time .

take , therefore , what modern technology is capable of : the power of our moral sense allied to the power of communications and our ability to organize internationally .

i got drawn into the honeybee world completely by a fluke .

he wanted to know everything about my family and my childhood and my hopes and dreams .

but do they call me macgregor the pier builder ? no .

so a cell biologist like me can come in , take a chip , put it in a cartridge like the prototype you see there , put the cartridge into the machine just like you would a c.d. , and away you go .

the british association for the advancement of science is holding its third meeting at the university of cambridge .

and my answer must at once be , it is no use .

( applause )

and the coal industries and the oil industries spent a quarter of a billion dollars in the last calendar year promoting clean coal , which is an oxymoron .

she was an accomplished rower in college , even competed for a spot on the 1992 u.s. olympic team , but this , this was different .

the situation in quetta had changed dramatically since i left in 2005 .

`` when i ask him if it 's safe to work in the field he said , `` i 'm not sure . '' ''

but this can change .

there 's something special about the structure — the order — inside a living cell .

it took me about 25 seconds to decide that that was a good idea .

or should they both change their practices so they can have much more flexible schedules ?

the reason this is happening boils down , in my mind , to one basic problem , which is our inability to perceive the difference between public benefits and private profits .

to the first question , 63 percent of people said yes , we like it .

that will not guarantee that we actually converge toward a single story of venice , but probably we can actually reconstruct a fully documented potential story of venice .

in contrast , the poor and the most vulnerable in our societies are using devices that leave them completely vulnerable to surveillance .

`` he said , `` '' it could be a high spade or a low spade . '' '' and my answer was ... ''

what i 'm saying is our approach is simply unsustainable .

we should all look at the moon a bit more often . we do n't .

my favorite role in life .

but too often my treatments made them feel worse .

after alexander , the other empires , babylon declines , falls into ruins , and all the traces of the great babylonian empire are lost — until 1879 when the cylinder is discovered by a british museum exhibition digging in babylon .

i 'm almost willing to bet that many of you have never heard of the flatworm , schmidtea mediterranea .

the fake signals now completely control this gps receiver .

as the teller of the tale and the audience , we know just what details to include , to dig that knife in . right ?

so over the last several years , kids around the world ages 8 and up , have shared their projects , and i thought , i wonder if , of those three million projects , whether anyone else has thought to put up mother 's day cards .

they produced heat and a little bit of light on the side .

we 've gone to immigration detention centers .

seventy percent of the population did n't want this .

and i really like that , because the viewer is really challenged as to what visual language is part of science versus art versus music .

a few years ago , i got a call from a luxury fashion store called barneys new york , and the next thing i knew , i was designing storefront kinetic sculptures for their window displays .

and that 's why we 're talking about sneakers .

audience member 3 : yes it is .

and because it 's really designed around an edited set of possessions — my favorite stuff — and really designed for me , i 'm really excited to be there .

so now that we developed these tools and found these materials that let us do these things , we started to realize that , essentially , anything that we can do with paper , anything that we can do with a piece of paper and a pen we can now do with electronics .

you 're going to have to have energy . there is no question .

because science is knowledge in process .

i 'm not a police officer or a social worker .

in contrast to the sams technology rig , this is the banded one , where it 's more tactile , it 's more investigative , it 's more apprehensive , and shows a reluctance to come straight in and go .

global citizens encouraged by the late-night host stephen colbert launched a twitter invasion on norway .

it meant that there could be extreme dynamics , which there were n't in some of these other kinds of music .

( applause ) thank you .

if he 's using landmark orientation , he should be able to find the burrow , because he 'll be able to recognize the landmarks around it .

now , 20 percent , well , that 's a fairly huge figure , you might think , but you 've still got 80 percent left of the problem , right ?

it 's environmentally responsible , efficient and humane .

me , one minute , it 's dry . the same with the trees .

and one solution is consent .

he and his son are both attending cal state , long beach right now taking classes . ( applause ) and what does this example — what 's important to keep in mind for ourselves ?

and ed witten unleashed the second superstring revolution .

that would be kind of cool , right ?

and that 's what religions do .

so for example , americans make toast with a toaster .

here in the netherlands , i think it 's more than 80 percent .

or take burma and the monks that were blogging out , a country that nobody knew anything about that was happening , until these blogs told the world that there was a repression , meaning that lives were being lost and people were being persecuted and aung san suu kyi , who is one of the great prisoners of conscience of the world , had to be listened to .

( applause )

because once a country gets plugged in by one cable , they realize that it 's not enough . if they 're going to build an industry around it , they need to know that their connection is n't tenuous but permanent , because if a cable breaks , you have to send a ship out into the water , throw a grappling hook over the side , pick it up , find the other end , and then fuse the two ends back together and then dump it over .

but here , on this image of the world , remember we 've stretched the map again .

you lose the institutional imperative .

but you can see , even just intuit , from this map , that the harbor has dredged and flattened , and went from a rich , three-dimensional mosaic to flat muck in really a matter of years .

that 's somebody who hit , by the way , four times safely out of every 10 .

these are also the exact things that computers have just learned how to do .

it 's all here ; it 's all on the web .

we make them every day — last night in my hotel room , when i decided to double-lock the door , or you in your car when you drove here , when we go eat lunch and decide the food 's not poison and we 'll eat it .

and then finally , give your company a name add a few more details and make your payment .

but at the end , 10 days later after he was born , we discovered that he had a stroke .

( applause )

this is south los angeles . ( laughter ) liquor stores , fast food , vacant lots .

anyway , another interesting thing happened while i was there .

are you ?

now imagine that women are represented here , and men are represented here .

we should have this unquenchable curiosity for the world around us .

and , of course , we did n't want to cut trees .

this repeats itself through the night — rehearsal , tying to the mast , conning his way out of it , beating the poor first mate up mercilessly .

so no other device has been able to do this .

we 're not at this world yet , but it 's coming .

but even black holes do n't last forever .

from there , you can upload a document or send information much like you would on any other contact form .

we are a bottom-heavy culture in more ways than one .

`` there was a famous irish terrorist who once summed up the point very beautifully . he said , `` '' the thing is , about the british government , is , is that it 's got to be lucky all the time , and we only have to be lucky once . '' '' so what we need to do is we have to effect it . ''

so i started a career as a social entrepreneur , starting an organization for young people like myself — i was young at the time that i started it — who traced their heritage to the indian subcontinent .

`` just a couple of months into the project , my french boss , he told me , `` '' you know , mallory , it 's a good idea , but the data you need for your algorithms is not there . ''

i think we 've got a lot of learning to do .

we see that in the brexit vote .

`` she 's going to be four years old , and anyone who knows a four-year-old knows that they love to ask , `` '' why ? '' '' yeah . why . ''

`` he said , `` '' there 's something fascinating about science . ''

that is , you decrease the amount of dopamine , and their tendency to see patterns like that decreases .

unprotected bamboo weathers .

but how could he convince the public that the millions of volts required to make it work were safe ?

time and again , people went out of their way to help me .

when she died , part of me would die , too .

the nurse announced that every pregnant woman must also be tested for hiv that day .

this seems like common sense , right ?

they busted open mexico 's smothering monopolies .

and the answer is zilch , exactly zero .

`` i 'm like , `` '' okay , all right , this guy is slowing down , i 'll slow down too . '' '' i step on the brake . ''

i probably would have already taken my own life , as so many others have done .

`` here 's the word `` '' mirror . '' '' no , it 's not the same upside-down . ''

so i can step back , and expand on that .

so what accenture suddenly found so unattractive about that , i 'm not sure .

that 's the consequence that we have to face .

thank you very much .

i kept looking , and i looked at the far end of the town in mountain home , and there was a small trailer park .

( applause ) thank you .

we know that isil is profiting from the looting of sites , but we do n't know the scale .

paramount amongst those was the realization that , actually , cities are fantastic places for the blind .

why is a high-quality education only exclusive to the rich ?

the people on santee alley are not the ones who shop at gucci .

it does n't matter if your computer 's mechanical , like babbage 's was , or electronic , like computers are today , or perhaps in the future , cells , or , again , mechanical again , once we get into nanotechnology .

we wanted to grow cells from these pieces of tissue .

power shifts fast .

i am a progressive lesbian talking head on fox news . ( applause ) so y'all heard that , right ? just to make sure , right ?

make sure you use a different password on each of your sites and services online .

it 's called the social stress test .

they thought the story was going to get out .

this 15 percent rule is true no matter where you are on the planet — japan , chile , portugal , scotland , does n't matter .

when they ask for a c.d . or an mp3 version , we just ca n't make that happen , and the reason is because this is n't a promotional app or a game to promote or accompany the release of a traditional record .

does it have a toxicity ?

just as a caterpillar turns into a butterfly , the malaria parasite transforms itself like that seven times in its life cycle .

if you have access to this information , you can see what your society is doing . if you have access to this information ,

i 'm going to try to go through 12 , really quickly .

and so i want to show you one other thing that may catch you a little bit by surprise .

how did hippomenes beat her ?

you can do all those fun things .

i barely did it , because i found it boring and painful , and as a result , it took me another six weeks to get better .

give it a few pumps . okay ?

now , what 's happening here is people are realizing the power of technology to unlock the idling capacity and value of all kinds of assets , from skills to spaces to material possessions , in ways and on a scale never possible before .

my dad 's the guy with the cigarette .

this number is almost 17 and a half million digits long .

i mean , let 's let the reader do a little work .

i mean , you edited the ones for us at the beginning of the sessions because of the length , etc .

it 's built with mostly off-the-shelf parts and costs about 1,000 times cheaper than the rovs james cameron used to explore the titanic .

for minority kids , it 's over 50 percent .

i do n't find that a useful or even intelligible concept .

you . yeah . ( laughter ) with the weird teeth . and you next to him . ( laughter ) you know who you are .

we could take those kinds of steps for antibiotic use too .

so if we start to think exponentially , we can see how this is starting to affect all the technologies around us .

and then we find some outliers , some things that lie beyond the cloud .

and if you look at this image , you can right away see clusters of happy and unhappy people , again , spreading to three degrees of separation .

because she had saved me .

this was a person that nobody seemed to be missing .

the good-news stories in medicine are early detection , early intervention .

now what i learned from her , is a woman , not only who could be so generous under these present circumstances and what it was then , and what was being done to her son , but the life she 's had .

fear replaces the unknown with the awful .

first of all , i guess we call it smart because it requires no controls and it requires no energy , and that 's a very big deal for architecture .

and the ultimate may be , but it does n't apply to cereals , that we have entirely closed ecosystems — the horticultural systems right at the top left-hand corner .

and he proved that you could actually teach people to do surgery using video conferencing .

because these are important benefits for the poor .

so my hip had been hurting me for years .

it calls its first responders .

let me give you a specific example .

we can actually use this to contain outbreaks of mosquito-born diseases , of epidemics , right ?

so what 's the next step for ethiopia ?

so our first prototypes we built were huge .

you create more value with lower cost .

let 's face it : driving is dangerous .

the forage has been displaced to a new position .

we have the only cookbook in the world that has partial differential equations in it .

there are three principles on which human life flourishes , and they are contradicted by the culture of education under which most teachers have to labor and most students have to endure .

and he took schwarzschild 's idea to the prussian academy of sciences the next week .

even the most data-savvy companies get it wrong .

by opening up their lives to me , they taught me so much about factories and about china and about how to live in the world .

but there 's so much creative content that 's just buried at the bottom .

until it was stripped from me , i never thought about it .

the forest emits smells , and these smells are condensation nuclei , which form drops in the atmosphere .

yeah , this is she .

i am a relentless collector of magical moments .

do you know how much of us all pretend to be somebody we 're not ?

but the choice that we do n't have is a no climate change future .

turns out , tony 's got the philosophy muscle .

the women in my family are not exceptions .

but we are the only ones using asparagus .

it 's not because they do n't know the alternatives ; it 's because rich countries can do what they choose , poor countries do what they must .

let 's take the payment system .

a democracy could be upheld peacefully .

so what we did was design a couple of arenas .

so 80 percent of the world 's employment in the developed world is stuff that computers have just learned how to do .

happy to take a paternity test , and would love to see it happen .

one last piece for you .

the surimi sticks [ of ] crabmeat , or is being sold as crab meat , is white fish that 's being dyed with cochineal .

this tends to be very different from what people expect .

but it 's walking forwards , and it 's actually taking a pellet of dry dung with it .

so why in the world would you ever want to do this stuff ?

so , this is why we call this effect quantum levitation and quantum locking .

i 'm a feminist , but i 'm a rather bad one .

but then you look at that already minuscule water and sanitation budget , and 75 to 90 percent of it will go on clean water supply , which is great ; we all need water .

very , very simple .

i want that to happen .

and if we really want to make big changes in big problems like world hunger , we need everybody to the table .

`` as one woman put it to a soldier who was trying to evacuate her for a second time , `` '' shoot me and dig the grave . ''

there 's been many other websites like ours .

i have a sort of a collection of videos that i took of different installations , which i could narrate .

there 's two reasons why people do n't do things .

sometimes they do n't react at all , which may be why they have trouble detecting these cues .

so one of the principle applications for this material is , amongst other things , in baby bottles , so it indicates when the contents are cool enough to drink .

they 're afraid their baby will die .

`` he 's like , `` '' you idiot . you moron . ''

and these were somewhat noticed .

thank you .

we do n't use audio . we do n't use video .

i was working on my computer trying to finish a freelance writing assignment , and i got frustrated , and conor used my anger as an excuse to put both of his hands around my neck and to squeeze so tightly that i could not breathe or scream , and he used the chokehold to hit my head repeatedly against the wall .

so the children have a plot .

it 's a game changer .

it 's not doing too well . we 've over-issued .

it 's just a wall .

we use a chip-based , continuous flow separation technique called deterministic lateral displacement .

i had one arm in plaster , one arm tied down by drips .

well , with cards , most people tend to draw clear , more detailed , and more logical nodes .

what do investors get ?

rachel carson — the godmother of modern environmentalism — warned us about this very thing back in 1962 .

and these integrated bits of viral dna get inserted at a site called crispr .

people do n't have the time or the patience to wait for me to fool around with the codes for every word or phrase .

the real hum is confidence and peace .

( applause )

there are different ways in which we must use it — for residential , for nature , for agriculture purposes .

and it really throws people for a loop because we think , well , there 's no nonverbal cues , so why do n't you lie more ?

so why are we all here today in this room ?

so with this success , we decided to take the next big step , to develop a real car that can be driven on real roads .

where you can pee on a little chip connected to your iphone and check yourself for an std .

far from it .

yeah . it 's not as if the arab world has a monopoly on sexual hangups .

and in discovery phase , we asked the patent troll to please provide screenshots of fark where the infringement of their patent was actually occurring .

and this , in essence , is what 's known as the friendship paradox .

so there are five things that i think we should do .

i 'd like to share three sets of examples , starting with adapting to violent storms and floods .

okay , i want to close by talking about some insights i gained while on sabbatical last year in the carnegie mellon art school .

and today , architects and biologists are working together to explore smart building design that will create healthy buildings for us .

and then , we 'd like to augment the automated search with human insight .

it just shows you that the numbers can inspire us all .

that is , you ask any generic question about this — how many trees of a given size , how many branches of a given size does a tree have , how many leaves , what is the energy flowing through each branch , what is the size of the canopy , what is its growth , what is its mortality ?

now this is , of course , not a disease , per se .

and if that thing is good , there 's no problem with it at all .

the amount of energy in each cubic centimeter remains the same , even as the universe gets bigger and bigger .

they borrow money .

and we will probably put 1,800 megawatts of solar systems to produce 3.5 million cubic meters of water .

do n't they just pop into your head ?

so , this is really interesting . now we have an architecture that connects a city to the natural world in a very direct and immediate way .

i mean , we as humans , our shallowness when we choose a life-mate based on the three cs — coat color , conformation , cuteness .

imagine a blank page with one horizontal line splitting it in half .

as we design and build vehicles better , we can also use them smarter by harnessing four powerful techniques for eliminating needless driving .

what if you could find out that , using the dna in museum specimens , fossils maybe up to 200,000 years old could be used to bring species back , what would you do ? where would you start ?

if you see a snake , do n't pick it up .

then we looked at the question of the affordability .

this is a huge space that contains all words in such a way that the distance between any two of them is indicative of how closely related they are .

em : well , as i mentioned earlier , we have to have sustainable electricity production as well as consumption , so i 'm quite confident that the primary means of power generation will be solar .

to go into a culture and to only ever process people through that kind of skrim curtain is to never truly get the culture .

now normally , these would be on different sides of the planet or of the internet , but i 've put them side by side because it makes things much more interesting .

and , in a way , it was buckminster fuller who coined that phrase .

and we save people that otherwise would not be saved .

`` `` '' well , because the street is safer now , '' '' they answered . ''

the cabin is open or closed , as you like .

tens of thousands of so-called digital volunteers were scouring the internet , converting tweets that had already been converted from texts and putting these into open-source maps , layering them with all sorts of important information — people like crisis mappers and open street map — and putting these on the web for everybody — the media , the aid organizations and the communities themselves — to participate in and to use .

that would do the job .

they certainly had reasons .

now , if you just take baby diaper polymer and dump it on the brain , obviously , it 's going to sit there on top .

and i can look at mine and i 'll have a list of all of the transfers that are happening in the entire bitcoin economy .

all of us have to have a commitment to do that .

it 's tens of millions of light-years away .

if there is any one lesson that i have learned in my life as a city planner , it is that public spaces have power .

you think about rewards schemes , air miles .

and that 's exactly what we find .

shyness is about fear of social judgment .

but is this question even amenable to science ?

for instance , in the 1960s , india adopted very specific numeric targets and they paid women to accept having an iud placed in their bodies .

and their youth was spent fighting each other within each country , in 1968 and afterwards .

and there is a major shift coming on the horizon .

but if it gets exposed to the enzymes that reside in our bloodstream or our tissues , it degrades within seconds .

innovations rarely get created full-blown .

i wonder what the future will hold .

so we 're working on making good images . end of story .

first of all , if you can , do n't fight the patent , fight the infringement .

( applause )

that 's an enormous amount of cars .

think about it . think about it .

like the overall shape of the world is obviously going to affect our maps .

and the range of stories are varied and diverse , but they also make up a universal tapestry .

this is our national museum today .

that awful buzzing sound at night around your ears that drives you absolutely crazy ?

i thought so , too , actually .

what is it that governments and ngos can learn from coke ?

( applause ) thank you . ( applause )

so , why not use a yield sign ?

they all happen over a period of time equal to 10 to the 10 to the 120 years .

so all of you right now are sharing your microbes with one another .

but i like to say , okay , let 's look at the modern human condition .

and i am forever grateful to the teachers who showed me the laws of physics and pointed out that three times three makes nine .

then perhaps we 're doing particle physics wrong .

this can transport a small payload today , about two kilograms , over a short distance , about 10 kilometers , but it 's part of a wider network that may cover the entire country , maybe even the entire continent .

and it was an expensive job , but actually it would n't be as much as you think because these people , they did n't come from money , they came from archimedes .

and i was floored , and i was broken , and i was angry .

paul offit : ... vaccine allowed us to eliminate polio virus .

it 's got a semantics .

by peering through the lens of a telescope we discovered that the earth is not the unmoving center of reality , and by peering through the lens of the theory of evolution we discovered that spacetime and objects are not the nature of reality .

one young woman i met , teen mother of four , never thought about finishing high school , graduated successfully ; never thought about going to college , enrolled in college .

a solar cell absorbs light and converts it into electrical energy .

i get it , knowing that there are so many sexual assaults on college campuses that are so widespread and so under-reported .

rm : it 's adaptable and remixable .

we 'll have spatial computing .

this comes out . this comes out .

and then there are certain conceptual things that can also benefit from hand calculating , but i think they 're relatively small in number .

they will take barrier objects and put them between themselves and the person that is interviewing them .

but see , the rich can pay for safety and can keep getting richer , but the poor ca n't pay for it and they 're left totally unprotected and they keep getting thrown to the ground .

well , here 's a diagnosis .

and of course , we are not there to say that 's only for us , it 's not for them .

( laughter ) you should never let your wife read something like this . ( laughter )

they 're completely flat , and they 're basically cardboard characters .

and that 's the shell around that globular fat .

you see , transits normally only last for a few hours , and this one lasted for almost a week .

they hardly get cancer , and when they do it 's not as severe .

she had started her business squatting in an abandoned garage , sewing sheets and pillow cases she would take to markets all around the city so that she could support the 12 or 13 family members who were counting on her for survival .

it 's a stress hormone .

this nation will become great again .

so automation allows this separation and also allows — in the case of driving , and i believe also in the future case of maths — a democratized way of doing that .

so my suggestion to those of you out here who are seriously focused on creating a better world is to take a little bit of time each day and practice thinking funny , because you might just find the question that you 've been looking for .

he means he 's got this sudden notion to stand on dry land , but just panhandle at the ocean .

20 percent of the oxygen coming from your lungs , 20 percent of the blood pumped from your heart , is servicing this one organ .

so the question is , why not eat insects ?

1,400 people were coming .

their chances of graduating increase by 20 percent . 20 percent .

and punch cards were used by computer programmers as late as the 1970s .

`` we call it `` '' atmosphere . '' '' this is the icon of our journey . ''

so that was number one .

he woke up around 9 , and he checked his email and he saw a bunch of messages all asking him if he was okay .

again , if you 're squeamish , you do n't want to watch .

i think it comes when we start to value the gift of a near win .

i sent all the teachers away from my group of 10 year-old students .

and the key takeaway i want to leave you with about those traits is that they 're primarily not about how smart you are or about how much you know .

`` he called out one word in the darkness : `` bye . '' ''

in it he proposed new strategies , new treatments using nerve-block injections .

we 've got an infrastructure that allows a certain percentage of people to spend all their time doing research .

this time , we were heard .

so this is my friend simon cooper , who until very recently worked for tata communications , the communications wing of tata , the big indian industrial conglomerate .

a frisson of excitement went around the room .

everybody is in a tizzy .

it can change the way that we communicate with one another , how we explore our data and how we teach our students .

( laughter ) now this brings us to our next pattern , which is body language .

`` i learned that `` '' hrr hrr hrr '' '' — that head laugh that chewbacca does . ''

but curiosity , exploration , are part of the play scene .

in danger zone i am not authorized to build .

our life longevity is going up almost a year for every year that passes .

it 's a tricky thing , is n't it .

they made better u.i.s , they made better documentation .

but in order to sustain the horizontal line — because these are the projects , these are the systems that we will deliver — we need to also develop the vertical line : system sustenance , high-level education , research and development , industries , technologies , to produce these technologies for application , and finally markets .

`` ( laughter ) but sometimes — ( laughter ) but sometimes i also do get — i would n't call it hate mail — but letters of really strong concern : `` '' dr. hong , are you insane , trying to put blind people on the road ? ''

many people would say , well , that 's very easy .

all the movements stopped at falsifying .

but it 's not enough .

but this is really how i go about creating these photographs .

also , we have a window of opportunity , because the brain is malleable for just so long , and that window of opportunity happens in the first three years of life .

she thanked me for the donation , and she explained that she is studying retinoblastoma , which is a deadly cancer of the retina that affects children under the age of five , and she said that yes , we were invited to visit her lab .

sometimes the patient gets better , sometimes the patient dies .

thank you .

i said one day , well , look , if the science says — this is science , not me — that our poorest children lose ground in the summertime — you see where they are in june and say , okay , they 're there .

that is why , in 2014 , we created costa rica limpia .

voice 5 : i was in times square . voice 6 : são paolo , brazil .

and you can see here that that is — that 's sort of vaporized , and that material is holding this little clump of little sand grains together .

i grew up in a typical american town near st. louis .

when i do my work , i have two kinds of reactions .

and herein is the greatest lesson of social media and mobile devices for all of us right now .

i still barely understand what most scientists are talking about .

if savings is current pain in exchange for future pleasure , smoking is just the opposite .

figure out some of the problems that are affecting us these days ?

now why ? you can call them .

he takes the uniform off . he 's no longer sergeant jones in his community . he 's now dave from kansas city .

and the other part is on the inside where it sends signals into the cell .

and that turned out to be women .

i have a very relativistic view of security .

vm : my idea is that i think that as long as we do n't cut , in a way , as long as we let the viewer watch , more and more viewers are going to feel closer , are going to get closer to the moment , to that moment and to that place .

( applause ) and kenya was no exception .

that was bob 's last record , yeah .

so if you do n't know one of these languages , it 's instant learning .

and when i saw it — and yet , through the shock , the terrible shock , and the terrible explosion in our lives , literally , we were not vengeful .

and for donor agencies , unfortunately , the audience tends to be people that are n't even in the country they 're working [ in ] .

he — his girlfriend was pregnant when he went to trial , right ? and she had a little baby boy .

and i want you to draw a capital letter e on your forehead as quickly as possible .

one of the coal industry 's ads around christmas was this one .

we 've got education connected to storytelling triangulated next to social media .

and the scene repeats itself so often .

i have a weakness for treating people 's economic interests as their only interest , ignoring things like belonging and pride and the desire to send a message to those who ignore you .

pilots are often about being right .

and additionally , there is a psychological aversion to doodling — thank you , freud .

the stone is bigger than her because stone is an organic .

and the solution we ended up using is peer grading .

we do n't really know why scytodes needs such a tough dragline , but it 's unexpected results like this that make bio-prospecting so exciting and worthwhile .

and now i was going to represent their concerns in government .

strong feelings can create a model .

because that 's the question , one of significance .

at the time i made this picture , stacey was working as an attorney for the state of texas .

if you 're involved in anything that 's communal , that involves lots of people getting together , there are things for you in religion .

the idea behind the gps spoofer is simple .

they share their designs .

and i found myself in front of an hr manager in 1999 , saying something i never imagined that i would say .

they domesticate crops .

now , we ca n't even begin to imagine what that might look like , but we 're beginning to get glimpses of instruments that might take us even that far .

fifty percent will have onset by age 14 , 75 percent by age 24 , a picture that is very different than what one would see if you 're talking about cancer or heart disease , diabetes , hypertension — most of the major illnesses that we think about as being sources of morbidity and mortality .

diagnosing areas where a teacher needs to improve is only half the battle .

a message to the entertainment industry and to the press : on the whole , you 've done a wonderful job fighting stigma and prejudice of many kinds .

between 1993 and 2010 , domestic violence among adult women in the united states has gone down by 64 percent , and that is great news .

tbp : i lost 150 million dollars .

and we persisted , and we got 450 guys growing mustaches , and together we raised 54,000 dollars , and we donated every cent of that to the prostate cancer foundation of australia , and that represented at the time the single biggest donation they 'd ever received .

the idea was to bring together some of britain 's greatest institutions , some international ones , and to create a new system of synergies .

i guess you could call this a lifesaving flash mob , and it works .

all my relations . thank you .

you 'll also see that the bladder lights up there .

there it is , the visual system .

and i can see how in this case , dna is being replicated millions of times , just like it 's happening inside your body right now .

it will come at the expense of your measurable speed .

this is what we are doing , what we are choosing .

or is it more like a frog ?

my parents , in fact my entire family 's lives , became consumed by taking care of me the best they knew how .

paleontology allowed me to combine my love for animals with my desire to travel to far-flung corners of the world .

i do n't understand why i felt so great doing it .

but then , they were very surprised when i graduated from high school .

so i did a few prototypes . i got a small little grant at stanford .

if all the answers are yes , i feel as though i 've won .

i suspect there are some people out there sitting , kind of asking tormented questions , almost , about , well , wait , wait , wait , wait , wait , wait a minute , there 's something wrong with mankind interfering in nature in this way .

why them ?

it self-educates both sides , enables a better understanding , reveals the strengths and weaknesses , and yes , like some of the speakers before , the shared vulnerability does lead to trust , and it does then become , that process , part of normalization .

for this , we 're showing a simulator , a blind person driving using the airpix .

in 2015 , the lhc will almost double the energy of the colliding protons , and these more powerful collisions will allow us to explore further the particle world , and we will certainly learn much more .

it was n't about the customers .

and also , the common precursor also gave rise to people .

can i challenge my friend 's insensitive joke ?

this is all super exciting research from an intellectual perspective , and so scientists are going to be willing to do it .

my friends and i took our bicycles and invited political leaders .

you 're one of fewer than 2,000 americans who has ever given a kidney to a stranger .

this shaped wok does n't work very well ; this caught fire three times .

why do i call it a book ?

and here you see me enjoying a meal with caterpillars , locusts , bee pupae — delicacies .

the incorporated side , the company , is doing things that it does really well .

religion is more than belief .

the schools would produce the people who would then become parts of the bureaucratic administrative machine .

whatever year it will be when our detectors are finally at advanced sensitivity — we 'll build them , we 'll turn on the machines and , bang , we 'll catch it — the first song from space .

and every time there is a new requirement , we use the same approach .

he had to come up with new ideas , new things that would be hard to copy .

and this is at the heart of all of the anger and extremism and protectionism and xenophobia and worse that we 're seeing growing in the world today , brexit being the most recent case .

and then this is the silicon sheath i roll over , to keep it on . which , when i sweat , you know , i 'm pistoning out of it .

less complex , more efficient , more bang for the buck .

and no one got killed .

with matter , as with people , we see only the skin of things .

i emailed it to the eye bank that arranged the donation , the old dominion eye foundation , and asked if they could send it to the right person .

did you know that today we maintain a global herd of 60 billion animals to provide our meat , dairy , eggs and leather goods ?

so even though a signal may come from the same functional part of the brain , by the time the structure has been folded , its physical location is very different between individuals , even identical twins .

that 's the size of the asteroid that hit the earth .

today , we have more than 60 million .

so it 's going to take brilliant people like you to study these things , get other people involved — and you 're helping to come up with solutions .

you ca n't get an exact number for that kind of probability , but what i 'm trying to say is that we have all the elements of that happening .

it is trillions , it 's not billions .

thank you .

`` he said gdp `` '' measures everything in short , except that which makes life worthwhile . '' '' wow . ''

it certainly says far more about real freedoms than magna carta .

with programmable money , we decouple the need for large , trusted institutions from the architecture of the network .

`` so me and all my friends would run home every day and watch `` '' jeopardy . '' '' i was always that kind of obsessed trivia kid . ''

light would be dragged down the hole as everything else would be , and all that would be left would be a shadow .

once there , she swiftly realized that more patients were dying of infections that they caught there , in the filthy , fetid wards , than they were of battle wounds .

if there 's only room for one woman at the top , then you ca n't make room for others , much less lift them up .

and my fastest time , which was the world record , was 15.77 .

so now we 're going into what we call the living room .

so for example , take the jewish idea of forgiveness .

but it 's not just the mortality from these disorders .

no , they wasted their money on this . what about this thing ? — it really is quite phenomenal .

it 's very difficult to line things up so neatly .

well , my answer would be no .

so this guy has been transplanting hundreds of mouse heads .

what are some key ideas that makes all of this work ?

i recall how they were seriously boiling the concoction .

and just last month the first fda-approved application was approved to allow radiologists to do actual reading on these sorts of devices .

we were in one of the poorest countries on the planet , but 80 percent of the people had mobile devices in their hands .

and i sincerely believe that we can do hard things , not just for them but for us and our future .

and we have cities where we 've done literally five or six price cuts and have seen those price cuts go up over time .

i think that i missed this , an ancestral record , a valuation of what i do n't know , what i have n't seen .

the music works perfectly in that setting .

rating agencies are rating companies .

dl : after nearly three months at sea , she 'd covered over 3,000 miles .

and they featured role models like abraham lincoln , who was praised for being modest and unassuming .

it would have the interdisciplinarity of the ted conference .

there are over 20 pages of reviews of his work describing him as super-friendly and fast , and he 's reached level 25 , the highest level , making him a superrabbit .

we support angolan journalists who are being illegally detained .

the problem with these patents is that the mechanisms are obscure and the patent system is dysfunctional , and as a result , most of these lawsuits end in settlements .

and that 's a much , much more difficult lesson to take into account .

we 're tied for 15th with iceland and poland .

india has many because they are many .

and you can see over here , that 's the correct e .

so these guys were absolutely crucial .

but if you think about it , if you have a lily pad and it just divided every single day — two , four , eight , 16 — in 15 days you have 32,000 .

and this is highly professional female interviewers who sit down for one hour with a woman and ask her about [ her ] birth history .

we disguised the domestic and part-time nature of the staff by offering fixed prices , one of the very first to do so .

all of these computers are collectively confirming who owns what bitcoin .

it 's very common in many phyla , from invertebrates to avian species , mammals , and , of course , even in primates .

and for some data centers , you might get two of these pieces of information .

go from 3,000 to 2,000 , from 1,500 to 1,000 .

it took time for life to break away from water , and it still beckons all the time .

a picture that you 're familiar with — the amazon rainforests .

i really have used it for my own personal growth and my own personal reflection on teaching strategy and methodology and classroom management , and just all of those different facets of the classroom .

this is a morning in vancouver in 2015 .

so there 's been plenty of people , plenty of us have been quietly arguing that we should have this independent system for years , but it 's very hard to get people focused on plan b when plan a seems to be working so well .

`` and she told me , `` never import other people 's limitations . '' ''

thank you .

it took me a little time .

and people did communicate .

`` you can see it for yourself . there are colors , streetlights , new pavement with no potholes , trees . so it 's beautiful ; it 's safe . '' '' and indeed , it was beauty that was giving people this feeling of being protected . ''

that , of course , has to be bigger than my thumb .

i 've experienced exploitation and violence at work .

so here i was , december 7th , 2008 .

the freedom that was won in 1990 brought about a state of anarchy in the city , while the barbarism of the '90s brought about a loss of hope for the city .

they are expected to bear the burden of costs in married life , but they ca n't find jobs .

thank you .

and i went to school here .

of course we wanted to go back to israel and palestine .

i was once late to my own speech on time management .

now i 'm not telling you this story because i think archie cochrane is a dude , although archie cochrane is a dude .

the peloponnesian war was the great conflict in which the greek city state system tore itself apart two and a half millennia ago .

so , the thing that we designed , much less sexy but much more human and practical , was this .

it was different in the two polar regions , and co2 also increased in jumps .

we could align ourselves with it .

my view is that ...

today it 's 50/50 .

and the second great thing about conservatives : they get ecology .

so we need new stories , new heroes and new tools .

the library of earth is an old one .

so here we 're starting with about 1.5 million car images , and i want to create something that can split them into the angle of the photo that 's being taken .

but it was always a conjecture .

the same principles , the same dynamics , the same organization is at work in all of these , including us , and it can scale over a range of 100 million in size .

harmony is not resolution .

so the results can be extremely , extremely good .

why ? because they are just like the cia .

the majority of those are also women .

listen .

so you can take it off the wall .

in buddhism , the lotus is a symbol for transcendence and for purity of mind and spirit .

that 's a picture of me .

( laughter ) the movie folks also tell us that our economy loses over 370,000 jobs to content theft , which is quite a lot when you consider that , back in '98 , the bureau of labor statistics indicated that the motion picture and video industries were employing 270,000 people .

how were we going to find housing for that many new new yorkers ?

there they are in the school fields , but it 's good and evil , and passion and hashish . and mira nair was a young girl with thousands of other people watching this performance , but she was ready . she was ready to open up to what it sparked in her , and it led her , as she said , down this path to become an award-winning filmmaker .

the cell phone is — yeah , you have to look down on it and all that , but it 's also kind of a nervous habit .

you see , in the village , we were all equal .

we separate the elements from nature and convert them into an irreversible state .

and i also realized that my silence , our silence , allows abuse like this to continue .

they are human beings just like us .

the state still matters .

there is an ancient proverb that says it 's very difficult to find a black cat in a dark room , especially when there is no cat .

this would be grown , i suppose , with nanotechnology in the future sometime .

sm : that 's not cool .

so that was a very captive audience .

tesla became the man who lit the world , but this was only the beginning .

trying to think about how a 404 felt , and it would be like if you went to starbucks and there 's the guy behind the counter and you 're over there and there 's no skim milk .

our energy sources are not sustainable .

always , all the data shows it 's the same , despite the fact that these cities have evolved independently .

jb : and so as people make their way out of the museum , reflecting on the experience , reflecting on their own thoughts of it , they then move into the actual space of the memorial itself , because they 've gone back up to grade , and we actually got involved in the memorial after we 'd done the museum for a few years .

i started at the yellow sea , and he started from the gobi desert .

this is natural selection .

and as usual , we were talking about the world 's problems .

and this is where it gets really interesting , because it 's not that simple , because we are not simple .

and we struggled with the image .

but until recently , very little work on this topic had been done .

and so , what did i find out , right off the start ?

so , what 's great about this is it is n't just a faster , more convenient way to get information in the real world , but there are times when actually using this medium allows you to be able to display information in a way that was never before possible .

and what 's more exciting is that there 's more data to come .

but are they really ?

a thin film will creep up the inside wall , flow over the top and right out the outside .

of course , we ca n't know what 's going to happen and we have to live with uncertainty .

i feel disloyal divulging them here , so let 's have look at what we do right .

here we go . ( laughter ) this little baby has a lot of horsepower .

i actually left one of these wet paintings outside overnight next to a light in the woods .

jung in afghanistan — you get the picture .

( applause )

i think none of these is the problem .

and we found it was a model that scaled .

let 's write about it . let 's film it .

you already heard about that . you know what that means .

thailand , 64 percent .

a terrible disease . it was in the united states . it was in europe .

maybe there is something that naturally , through the growth of the laws of physics , gives rise to universe like ours in low entropy configurations .

so a code of conduct was developed , and now we have 80 auditors out in the world every day making sure all our factories secure good working conditions and protect human rights and make sure there is no child labor .

( laughter ) the laws of physics : invisible , eternal , omnipresent , all-powerful .

we live in a galaxy , the milky way galaxy .

these are fundamental activities to their development as humans and as contributors to society and to the workforce .

and we have a little storage room where we converted a jail .

in fact , i 've got 38,000 of them now and no kindle in sight .

some last just for a day or two , and some for more than a week .

so where are the phoenix islands ?

so let 's talk about the perpetual search trap .

when you walked into those rooms , they smelled really bad , and our data suggests that it had something to do with leaving behind the airborne bacterial soup from people the day before .

was jfk assassinated by a conspiracy or by a lone assassin ?

people started to drop less litter in the streets , for example , started to pay taxes , started to feel something they had forgotten , and beauty was acting as a guardsman where municipal police , or the state itself , were missing .

the reason : there is a lot of it .

the hebrew writers in the old testament , you will not be surprised to learn , take a rather different view of this .

we ca n't hatch plans and climb that stairway of popularity , of success .

and better still , imagine what would happen if , in a very large area , everyone would take these drugs , this drug , for just three weeks .

( applause ) and bryan had a bold architectural vision .

and you may remember from biology class that stem cells are immature cells , able to turn into any type of cell of the body .

the soft — feelings , sentiments , interpersonal relationships , traits , personality .

well that 's what happens in normal hybridization anyway .

there are no sidewalks .

i 'm going to show you our latest dataset .

then there was similar mortality in '97-'98 .

the system is also smart enough to figure out the safest way to operate the car .

`` why has n't that made a comeback ? ( laughter ) so then there was a lot more beers , and then the day ended with a challenge to bring the mustache back . ( laughter ) so in australia , `` '' mo '' '' is slang for mustache , so we renamed the month of november `` '' movember '' '' and created some pretty basic rules , which still stand today . ''

now this is very unusual , because globally we find that , not surprisingly , people feel better as their country gets richer .

for you to leap from a place of certainty , to take a chance on that someone or something unknown , you need a force to pull you over the gap , and that remarkable force is trust .

first of all , we have all the statistical analyses from the innocence project work , where we know that we have , what , 250 , 280 documented cases now where people have been wrongfully convicted and subsequently exonerated , some from death row , on the basis of later dna analysis , and you know that over three quarters of all of those cases of exoneration involved only eyewitness identification testimony during the trial that convicted them .

if we look at al qaeda . al qaeda was essentially a product on a shelf in a souk somewhere which not many people had heard of .

you can see how these two worlds collide .

you have to put it in a larger european context .

it was in constant flux , and we had to , rather than fight it , embrace it , see where the milk would take us and compensate to make it even better .

and then another category of worker , the outreach workers , to keep people in a way on therapy for six to 24 months .

thank you . ( applause )

and that electron disappears .

the unit that i worked with in rome , they were unique .

it 's even more difficult in edinburgh because you have to count all the whisky and the tartan .

the idea here is obviously not only to fool the operators in the control room .

this works with a laser sensor that 's mounted on top of rezero .

i 'm only showing the top 500 most popular wikipedia pages right here .

this is a global experience .

my self became defined by otherness , which meant that , in that social world , i did n't really exist .

`` this piece is entitled , `` '' where i live . '' '' i live in a world where most people are too afraid to go . ''

let me start with the good news : it 's not the takers .

but most of all , for the first time in decades , they expect to be active participants , not spectators , in the affairs of their country .

there is a spectrum between mediocre work and good work , and as anybody who 's worked as an artist or a creator knows , it 's a spectrum you 're constantly struggling to get on top of .

and whatever he makes somehow references nesting and space and personal property .

this is my niece , stella .

but by 2050 , it will affect 150 million people — which , by the way , will include many of you .

but still , here in the year 2011 , there 's a drug that you can give to mice at a pretty old age that will extend their lifespan , which comes out of this science that 's been done in all these different animals .

and around the world , satellites and warning systems are saving lives in flood-prone areas such as bangladesh .

cyrus begins in the 530s bc .

the creative spirit in africa , the creative tradition , is as potent as it has always been , if only designers could look within .

we have just published an evaluation of this program , and the evidence that is there for all to see is quite remarkable .

but now i began to question how i knew what i knew .

`` i said , `` '' gosh ! ''

that 's when i started writing songs , and even then i only played them for myself .

those have to pay tuition fees know .

why would you try to change it ?

`` so little billy goes to school , and he sits down and the teacher says , `` what does your father do ? '' ''

it 's been really important to make it comfortable .

it 's no surprise that the twist can be traced back to the 19th century , brought to america from the congo during slavery .

our breakthrough was to create an algorithm that unfolds the cortex , so that we can map the signals closer to its source , and therefore making it capable of working across a mass population .

because why should our students have to go so far away from where they live ?

other people controlled every aspect of my life .

it says exactly the same thing : poor kids lose ground in the summertime .

( laughter ) it 's a great way to start sentences .

i think the beautiful malin [ akerman ] put it perfectly .

so i can drill into what i 've done over specific time frames .

`` with tears in my eyes , i said , `` '' no . '' '' two months later , i go to another village on the same assignment and they asked me to live with the village chief . ''

now what could this mean ?

and what we found was that the same six principles that we saw underpinning the miracle of the human immune system actually cropped up again and again , from redundancy through to embeddedness .

( applause )

so i was amazed .

for us as individuals who live in the digital now and spend most of our waking moments in it , the challenge is to live in two streams of time that are parallel and almost simultaneous .

and some day , artificially intelligent supercomputers will analyze the images without human assistance to summarize them in a connectome .

why do n't we know these stories ?

on february 17th they passed it again with another vote of 114 to one .

we now have techniques , because of these rapid methods of synthesis , to do what we 're calling combinatorial genomics .

but in the eyes and the minds of the other kids , i was not their equal .

so he came up with an idea : he had the computer play against itself thousands of times and learn how to play checkers .

it 's made of silcon-coated glass fiber .

it 's almost as though either you accept the doctrine and then you can have all the nice stuff , or you reject the doctrine and you 're living in some kind of spiritual wasteland under the guidance of cnn and walmart .

so what are they doing when they do this dance ?

these are all very good qualities .

i do n't really understand this . a lot of mba students do this .

now , if you want to do something that you do n't know how to do yourself , then this is going to be a great challenge .

professional hearing protectors are great ; i use some all the time .

man 4 : you ready ? you ready ? ( barking ) woman 2 : right there . okay , glass , take a picture .

`` and then he says , `` '' well that 's very interesting , gentlemen , because when i gave you the table of results , i swapped the two columns around . ''

there 's sort of illegal hustles , like you run a barbershop out of your cell .

so mountains are built up , and they erode away by water and rain and ice and so forth , and they become grains of sand .

it 's not that it 's not possible to feed , clothe and house us all and have us live decent lives .

well , one study tested this by examining people 's personalities .

tbp : i do n't like that because it ends up the government is going to run the program .

can i tell the person i love the most my deepest insecurities ?

so this is the general blood work before , and this is the after , this is what we came up with .

but i know where she was .

that part .

well , the brain , as you know , is made up of neurons .

in russia , they do not generally block the internet and directly censor websites .

so if you think about it , the ocean is 71 percent of the planet , and blue light can extend down to almost a 1,000 meters .

that global ethic can infuse the fairness and responsibility that is necessary for these institutions to work , but we should not lose the chance in this generation , in this decade in particular , with president obama in america , with other people working with us around the world , to create global institutions for the environment , and for finance , and for security and for development , that make sense of our responsibility to other peoples , our desire to bind the world together , and our need to tackle problems that everybody knows exist .

the flow that they maintain keeps us safe from ourselves , from our own dross , our cast-offs , and that flow must be maintained always no matter what .

so this is great . it simplifies things .

this bugged me and i was befuddled .

old-fashioned classrooms suffer too .

so my dream is something like this .

i 'm not a social problem guy .

we used to marry , and had sex for the first time .

it scratches on the soil .

i 'm feeling it .

and as he said , i think fittingly , it 's a gift from god , with god saying , you 've done good work .

and just as with the wall , how i wanted to be more wall-like , with this project , i 'd actually like to take more a of glacial pace .

so i should talk about art .

we no longer live in a world in which everything is as clearly delineated or separated from each other .

and that 's exactly what we did 10 years ago .

so why would n't we celebrate and elevate these change makers and job creators rather than overlook them ?

i make large-scale figurative paintings , which means i paint people like this .

and they go back and forth for a while .

peers are giving and doing things that are incredibly expensive for companies to do .

they eat about one-third , and the rest is exported to all kinds of countries in europe and the rest of the world .

my father had to sit in a friday sermon listening to the imam condemning women drivers and calling them prostitutes amongst tons of worshippers , some of them our friends and family of my own father .

if it is using something called path integration , it will not find its home . it will arrive at the wrong spot , and what it 's doing here if it 's using path integration is it 's counting its steps or measuring the distance out in this direction .

so the very first thing we wanted to do in this building was look at the air system .

students may display captions in their native language .

what she discovered just by being curiously aware when she smoked was that smoking tastes like shit .

conor first physically attacked me five days before our wedding .

we get unbelievable segregation .

so who came up with this idea ? who owns it ?

`` she suddenly raised her hand like this , and said to me , `` get on with it . '' ''

generally i think there are — what i mean by that is , boil things down to their fundamental truths and reason up from there , as opposed to reasoning by analogy .

i just believed a new thing : that it was possible not to believe .

now the specifics of the goal do n't matter here , but what matters is how specific the goal is .

indeed , it will decrease neurogenesis .

and it 's good to start early .

that 's incredible to me , and sometimes when i 'm nervous and everything like that , i just need to , like , say some affirmations that can help me .

now what okolloh did would not have been possible without digital technology .

is this just the way the world is ?

buildings are complex ecosystems that are an important source of microbes that are good for us , and some that are bad for us .

`` when you hear the word `` '' forger , '' '' you often understand `` '' mercenary . '' '' you understand `` '' forged currency , '' '' `` '' forged pictures . '' '' my father is no such man . ''

about 20 years ago , we were at a 15-percent loss .

so he was learning many different core principles of design , about how to experiment with new ideas , how to take complex ideas and break them down into simpler parts , how to collaborate with other people on your projects , about how to find and fix bugs when things go wrong , how to keep persistent and to persevere in the face of frustrations when things are n't working well .

i 'm not suggesting that we 're not — that we 're necessarily sexually faithful to our partners .

there are all sorts of things that are in it for the institution .

`` `` '' you see that stone wall out there ? ''

and the weapon was the ipad .

that is oh point oh well percent of the rest of the world .

so our work was n't affected .

as you can see here , we 've color-coded all the biomolecules brown .

so the following episode happened the seventh week of my first semester of my first year at yale law school .

we should be growing fertility . and , oh yes — we get food , too .

and i thought up a lot of ideas .

sg : so that 's exactly right .

the british association would later be the first of the major national science organizations in the world to admit women as full members .

and with every click of the mouse and every touch of the screen , we are like hansel and gretel leaving breadcrumbs of our personal information everywhere we travel through the digital woods .

steve would later tell me that , for all the times he had seen me psychotic , nothing could have prepared him for what he saw that day .

it 's home to an unknown number of people — some say between 250,000 and 1.2 million .

but they are not applicable in all situations .

we risk vulnerability — this is something men do n't do .

it was a project from nonny de la peña in mark bolas 's lab in usc .

and then , as the other axis kicks in , those actually blur into a volume .

that is that the number of petrol stations in the city is now given to you when you tell me its size .

but we can then ask : are there any absolute differences between africans and non-africans ?

the other one also , but maybe too many patterns .

it 's just the vastness of space makes it look like nothing 's happening .

what i did n't realize at the time , however , was that i had become an activist , i could change something , that even as a kid , or maybe even especially as a kid , my voice mattered , and your voice matters too .

so let me tell you my story .

and what if those crops would then make more seeds , enabling you to feed the entire crew with just those few packets of seeds for the duration of the trip ?

and you can be secure even if you do n't feel it .

one day , i got to present my research to a roomful of mba students .

( applause ) and they defeated the proposal .

and after world war ii , we started using herbicides to kill off the weeds in our farms .

individual experiences , certainly , can influence our perceptions , but so , too , can things like the media reporting things by exception , rather than what 's normal .

set the fire underneath the two trees , it 's burning .

the second idea i want to discuss is economic zones .

( laughter ) do n't wait for that sign to be adopted , these things do n't change quickly .

why do we dance ?

`` another one was an interactive project where , when you moved the mouse over the letters of `` '' happy mom day , '' '' it reveals a special happy mother 's day slogan . ''

i 'm embarrassed , the audience is clearly uncomfortable , they 're focused on my discomfort .

it 's the same in marketing .

we had accidentally discovered the first resilience-enhancing drug .

it 's not costless .

ha ha . ( laughter ) if you use that , you can get away with anything .

and they did n't care whether you became a doctor or a lawyer or a general , and they never expected any generals in the family , as long as you got an education and then you got a job .

it 's really interesting when you try and figure a way to fund a fundraising organization built off growing mustaches . ( laughter ) let me tell you that there 's not too many people interested in investing in that , not even the prostate cancer foundation , who we 'd raised about 1.2 million dollars for at that stage .

and we went in , and right off the bat , our conversation really was n't taking flight , but he was ordering a lot of food .

it 's a very powerful principle .

but technology alone is n't enough .

also last year , bmw announced this carbon fiber electric car , they said that its carbon fiber is paid for by needing fewer batteries .

along the y-axis , the vertical axis , is how tall they actually were .

and so when faiza eventually fetched up at a hospital in casablanca , the man who offered to help her , instead tried to rape her .

according to a theory that dates back to the 19th century , such memories are stored as chains of synaptic connections inside your brain .

cheers , mate .

now this society has no central authority .

so , do i get a thank you ?

they 're not just simple , dumbed-down things that we see in school math .

and the self is n't the only thing ; it 's not even most things .

and it was in disagreement with seven — seven , count them , seven experiments .

the story starts in kenya in december of 2007 , when there was a disputed presidential election , and in the immediate aftermath of that election , there was an outbreak of ethnic violence .

so if we could roll the next film here .

they are often ignored because they 're harder to help .

i was n't supposed to have fully resourced biology or chemistry labs , school buses that brought me door-to-door , freshly prepared school lunches or even air conditioning .

the occupy movement found a voice , and i still have to speak english constantly .

i was n't trying to be funny .

she was diagnosed with a grapefruit-sized fibroid .

my shock quickly turned to outrage .

and they can make basically what 's a reference atlas .

`` do you remember the movie `` '' the da vinci code ? '' '' here 's professor langdon examining a gps dot , which his accomplice tells him is a tracking device accurate within two feet anywhere on the globe , but we know that in the world of nonfiction , the gps dot is impossible , right ? ''

i needed to listen .

we have the free speech representation on one side , and we have the freespeech engine , which generates english .

and very much of what we do is cartography .

and he said to me on that very day , he said that new york was projected to grow from eight to nine million people .

every one of them told us they loved it .

cats were watching other cats watch this video . ( laughter )

and the core of these key actors are groups who represent different interests inside countries .

i was one too .

and in all these universes , it 's like imagination is the vehicle to be transported with , but the destination is our minds and how we can reconnect with the essential and with the magic .

`` when we think about economic growth stopping , we go , `` '' that 's not possible , '' '' because economic growth is so essential to our society that is is rarely questioned . ''

they 're not allowed to work in the public sector or practice certain professions and are denied the right to own property .

and here are two different images of the archimedes manuscript .

belshazzar , his son , decides to have a feast .

so that 's theory , that 's great .

but i picked design , because i believe it 's one of the most powerful tools at our disposal to improve our quality of life .

just three examples .

what you see there is the years passing in seconds .

so i set out to study electrical engineering and robotics , and my end-of-studies project was about building a robot called er-1 — it looked like this— that would collect information from its environment and proceed to follow a white line on the ground .

and the chinese government responded sensibly and placed a ban on felling .

so we have these feast and famine cycles .

and i used to think , how on earth are those kids ever going to learn to write computer programs ?

nothing more .

it 's unique .

but the information was closer to me .

and so what my team of researchers , what we wanted to do , is say , can we apply genetic and proteomic technology to go after dna and proteins , and from this can we get better taxonomic resolution to really understand what 's going on ?

after her name , written in brackets was the apt description , horse face .

here we see ian goodfellow moving over 10 tons of equipment into a pop-up tent that he would equip to detect and diagnose the virus and sequence it within 24 hours .

compare those two pictures , and now as a radiologist , you can essentially fly through your patient 's colon and , augmenting that with artificial intelligence , identify potentially , as you see here , a lesion .

precisely not to have to cooperate with my wife .

after 25 years of working on issues of poverty and innovation , it 's true that there are probably no more market-oriented individuals on the planet than low-income people .

just imagine walking a mile in someone else 's headline .

`` and i 'd write them back , and i 'd say , `` '' what a minute . we 're not french . ''

this journey will take us all the way down to the nano world .

people who got infections either recovered , if they were lucky , or they died .

`` within the education community there 's this discussion of , `` '' should it just be the young teachers who get laid off , or the less good teachers who get laid off ? '' '' and there 's a discussion : if you 're going to increase class sizes , where do you do that ? how much effect does that have ? ''

and the reason is that — take africa for example .

because we all stem from africa .

the space on board and the resources would be limited .

the police , investigating officers , were amazingly efficient .

it looks beautiful .

number four : the most powerful asset of the digital age is data .

`` the universe `` '' is written in the mathematical language . '' '' and today , i want to show you one of those musical notes , a number so beautiful , so massive , i think it will blow your mind . ''

( applause ) thank you .

across the americas , from the us and mexico to colombia and uruguay , change is in the air .

when the soviet union broke up , we effectively lost that adversary as a potential attacker of the united states , for the most part .

what do we have in south america that is different ?

so when i was in morocco , in casablanca , not so long ago , i met a young unmarried mother called faiza .

ca : all right . so this is only one string to your energy bow .

you 're going to go and teach this year .

if we have a generation that does n't know how to build a fort , we 'll have a generation that does n't know how to care about nature .

you ask them to go up an inclined plane , and they fall over .

this is some mathematicians at mit .

contrast this to rooms that were designed using a sustainable passive design strategy where air came in from the outside through louvers .

apple is a seller of luxury goods .

( applause )

so that 's my first tip : look broader .

ss : can you tell about who designed your other legs ?

on that grid , i can then weave the high tide readings , water temperature , air temperature and moon phases .

but here 's the thing : the stupidest possible creative act is still a creative act .

my history was n't right .

well , i intend to build these self-organized learning environments .

let me show you how we do that .

in every work that i create , i write messages with my style of arabic calligraphy .

i still hear people asking me all the time , is n't a digital image somehow blurring the line between public and private because it 's digital , right ?

so the streaks that you see , all these streaks , are actually distorted images of galaxies that are much further away .

because we really need to make significant change .

they see images of us , and they see bad images .

and engagement is essential here , because it 's not just giving them information ; it 's giving them an opportunity to act .

now there 's two ways it could be doing that , and we can test that by displacing the beetle to a new position when it 's at the foraging site .

but you notice , i 've cheated , because i 've only gone up to '94 .

so i want to talk to you briefly about a group of hackers we tracked for a year and actually found — and this is a rare treat in our job .

okay , when you hear the click , this is when the energy starts to emit and you see a little lesion form inside the phantom .

use of freshwater .

well , there was n't much else to do in the spinal ward , so we did .

let 's talk about what 's going on today .

i ca n't tell you how many times i 've stood in front of the pyramids of giza , and they leave me speechless .

but then we hit the 20th century , and we entered a new culture that historians call the culture of personality .

it looks like bob dylan , but it 's mahler .

and i started looking more and more into this .

but nowhere else anyway .

nearly all of these proteins can be explained by a single gene family , so this means that the diversity of silk types we see today is encoded by one gene family , so presumably the original spider ancestor made one kind of silk , and over the last 380 million years , that one silk gene has duplicated and then diverged , specialized , over and over and over again , to get the large variety of flavors of spider silks that we have today .

when the safety of america is threatened , we will spend any amount of money .

so , similarly , the pattern of connections among people confers upon the groups of people different properties .

and i think that 's how we got to become human .

a few years ago , after finishing my ph.d. in london , i moved to boston .

but very few of us know what to do with idleness .

you know the phrase , you can manage what you measure ?

( laughter ) i went — let me remind you that marc abrahams did n't call me from stockholm .

it 's judging how trustworthy people are in particular respects .

the universe disappears .

but they 're not strong characters who happen to be female .

so , in a frenzy , i corrected everybody 's marks , not imaginatively .

we did n't want students to memorize the formulas ; we wanted to change the way they looked at the world .

when i enter into dialogue , i really hope that the other side would pick up my points of view , that i would impress upon them my opinions and my values .

so let 's experience it .

`` bao yongxiu : `` '' my mother tells me to come home and get married , but if i marry now , before i have fully developed myself , i can only marry an ordinary worker , so i 'm not in a rush . '' '' chen ying : `` '' when i went home for the new year , everyone said i had changed . they asked me , what did you do that you have changed so much ? ''

when the ebola outbreak broke out in western africa , he quickly realized that doctors there lacked the basic tools to detect and combat disease .

the first person who , i think , really developed some kind of insight into what was going on in the brain was the great spanish neuroanatomist , santiago ramón y cajal , in the 19th century , who used microscopy and special stains that could selectively fill in or render in very high contrast the individual cells in the brain , in order to start to understand their morphologies .

all those other values , all those pages and pages of values that are full of nothing , we summarize .

a breath that 's fossilized now as iron .

and what narrative , what history , what identity , what moral code are we imparting to our young ?

these dips have variable shapes .

this is why spouses in happy marriages tend to think that their husband or wife looks much better than anyone else thinks that they do .

there was an fao conference last october that was completely devoted to this .

`` and out there , around the world , is a group of people called `` '' miners . '' '' these are not young people , they 're bitcoin miners . ''

and design was in everything my dad did .

well , it can be as much as 1,000 dollars .

but it 's really more like this : let 's say you 're a 30 year-old guy — or in your 30s — and you 're a bachelor and you 're dating people .

( laughter ) and actually this is my aunt irene .

i want to end with a few words from my late father that he spoke at my twin brother 's wedding .

( video ) mk : you okay ? you did great . gg : yes , it 's gorgeous . thank you .

what made it different was that this was real course experience .

but it actually hits home .

ca : i mean , this is a beautiful but expensive car .

how do your family feel about each time you step into something big and new ?

you see that ethnobotanists have friends in all sorts of strange cultures .

in order to create sustainable , long-term economic growth and solve the challenges and social ills that continue to plague the world today , we 're going to have to be more broad-minded about what might work .

thank you very much .

he wore heavy jackets and big hats to accentuate his height .

you can scarcely imagine the kind of havoc you could cause if you knew what you were doing with a gps spoofer .

bats are cool . batman is cool .

it was that every now and then they 'd climb on top of the ball and they 'd take a look at the world around them .

it was true just recently of ebola .

married , two kids .

a third component are central pattern generators .

this area shown here is an area called the hippocampus .

you have an object , and we showed him how to grab the object .

now , stack overflow is basically a platform where experienced programmers can ask other good programmers highly detailed technical questions on things like tiny pixels and chrome extensions .

right now , a lot of the work that 's going on applies to animal models of human disease , such as mice .

then take iran itself , and what people are doing today : following what happened to neda , people who are preventing the security services of iran finding those people who are blogging out of iran , any by everybody who is blogging , changing their address to tehran , iran , and making it difficult for the security services .

last year , volkswagen announced that by next year they 'll be producing this carbon fiber plugin hybrid getting 230 miles a gallon .

it was the brainchild of the u.s. state department .

alan turing , a pioneer of artificial intelligence , spoke about creating the illusion that a machine could think .

i heard culturally and because of the law , they would just arrest us at the first pasting .

where does it stop ?

twelve years ago , i was a fresh graduate seeking my way in the world .

and as recently as the 1990s , in peru , women from the andes region were given anesthesia and they were sterilized without their knowledge .

and then the next question was , are there organs ?

and they do n't just guess what makes people happy ; they go to places like latin america and they realize that happiness there is associated with family life .

and there are nine other winners who get prizes .

it works just purely on its form .

but other regarding behaviors are essential to our evolution as social beings .

it 's an analogy between two things .

he even attached matches to the brim of his hat and set them alight , so they sizzled menacingly whenever his ship was poised to attack .

ca : tim , thank you for a very important talk . thank you .

well first of all i think we can do much better on the existing technologies .

well , we know exactly where it happens , in the temporal lobe , right across , sort of above your ear there , in a little structure called the fusiform gyrus .

i do n't believe that ignorance is bliss .

all companies die , all companies .

growing up , i decided i wanted to become a doctor and save lives .

`` how can these cars whisper , `` '' you need to get out of the way ? '' '' well , it depends on two things : one , the ability of the car , and second the ability of the driver . ''

but really the most satisfying experience i 've had is the act of listening , which is what we need in any good relationship .

by the time kids are 11 , 50 percent of them have fallen so far behind in their education that they have no hope to recover .

you can feel the dynamism of this living , breathing community .

but even though it 's the home of the fast fashion industry and you have a lot of luxury designers there , they do n't register their garments , generally , and there 's not a lot of litigation .

we have seen a revolutionary breakthrough in the emergence of these exponential curves .

but we are not here to tell stories , are we ?

global citizens together with rotarians called on the canadian , uk , and australian governments to boost their investment into polio eradication .

many of these are a father who has to leave his family behind to go get a job — sometimes a single mother who has to get enough money to even pay for food or clothing .

now another problem was that the language in their textbook was truly incomprehensible .

i 'll put down the lawsuit and they will send me all the information i ask for .

the idea behind littlebits is that it 's a growing library .

audience member 3 : yes . hg : yes ! perfect .

so for the subway in new york , i saw a correspondence between riding the subway and reading .

she shrugged .

but nothing else does either .

i 'd come out of my suite at the waldorf astoria — ( laughter ) — be walking up the street , and i would hit around 55th street looking for the immigrant pushcart peddler .

guys stayed up in these cheap hotels for decades .

so the knowledge generates ignorance .

and in fact , the smallest unit of matter that can evolve independently is , in fact , a single cell — a bacteria .

( applause )

mk : we 're gun owners , we support gun rights .

and then i did kind of get the reaction i was hoping for .

they supported me all the way through it .

how did this happen , reasonable people might ask .

we 're facing a very powerful opponent .

this is a rugged and barren landscape , yet there are quite a few spiders here .

vm : i 'll just make it very short .

the world health organization estimates that there are nearly four to five hundred million people living on our tiny planet who are affected by a mental illness .

and they need advanced notice to do that .

so a little over a decade ago , two groups of physicists and astronomers set out to measure the rate at which the expansion of space was slowing down , ok .

there is an airbnb host on almost every main street in paris .

this is the ultimate .

so , my question : are we alone ?

my male uncles died of alcohol-related diseases .

i want no part of any of that .

and this starts right now and depends on you .

the rhetoric of the candidates , of course , changed .

`` the word is `` '' misfit . '' '' it 's one of my favorite words , because it 's so literal . ''

on the left , it 's when it 's cold and the thermo-bimetal is flat so it will constrict air from passing through the blocks , and on the right , the thermo-bimetal curls and allows that air to pass through , so those are two different components that i 'm working on , and again , it 's a completely different thing , because you can imagine that air could potentially be coming through the walls instead of opening windows .

make me laugh . make me care .

i can assure you that my hygiene routine is up to standards now , though .

this is probably the biggest problem facing our society .

i put out notices in papers saying , if you are a british grandmother , if you have broadband and a web camera , can you give me one hour of your time per week for free ?

ca : so , we 'll just run a couple more pictures here . virgin brides . very nice .

`` an ultraconservative organization . '' '' ( laughter ) i 've heard this before . i know how it goes . ''

it also made all those people who roamed around the desert — looking for water , looking for food , trying to take care of their livestock — urbanize .

sw : big finish .

let me show you a quick video of what this camera does .

too high and maybe you see patterns everywhere .

you can see , there 's saturn , there 's jupiter , and while we 're here , i want to point out something .

the hum is more than writing .

baby diapers have interesting properties .

first up : crowd-sourcing my 420 sq . ft. apartment in manhattan with partners mutopo and jovoto.com .

cars are three-dimensional objects that have a fixed position and velocity .

`` i 'd called this the `` '' everything '' '' theory , or eoe : everything on earth . ''

sometimes it 's hard to breathe , especially carrying all the heavy filming equipment .

in the end , it may be bats which change their social structure in response to a population crash , or it may be meerkats who show a novel adaptation to a human road , or it may be another species .

in my childhood , i played around in my father 's university lab .

tom 's hand . tom 's hand . tom 's hand . ( laughter ) anyway .

but these are temporary columns , waiting in purgatory , to be placed in the very counties where these lynchings occurred .

( music ) ( video ) announcer : this is an historic day in january .

it would take care of itself .

the first one is the seduction scene .

and let me end by saying that sound moves in all directions , and so do ideas .

and if we could n't spread out , which was probably a good thing , where could new housing go ?

but it is nearly impossible for an american to get discharged their student loan debts .

on the other side , as i said , there are those who say the problem is that we need more money .

and i 'm afraid of the other one , which says , this is so good you 've got to do this .

i pull myself up into the branches , and as i come out of the water , i look over my shoulder .

thankfully , out of the 123 million nights we 've ever hosted , less than a fraction of a percent have been problematic .

specifically , what 's lacking is the kind of critical thinking work that is so essential in such disciplines as the humanities , the social sciences , business and others .

we can do what we need to do , but it will take every entrepreneur , every artist , every scientist , every communicator , every mother , every father , every child , every one of us .

and we need that relationship to reflect , to reclaim hope .

they have bad ideas .

if you do n't understand the risks , you do n't understand the costs , you 're likely to get the trade-off wrong , and your feeling does n't match reality .

well , this may be on the science fiction fringe , but were even part of his scenario to come about , our ecology and even our species would surely not survive long unscathed .

but she was frightened . she 'd lived 95 years and she 'd never had a hallucination before .

my characters are — my lead character 's a shark named sherman .

rule number two : embrace the mess .

until someone notices me , and i just panic .

( cabbage stabbed with a knife ) the next one — it 's breaking bones .

`` `` '' but why ? '' '' i asked him . ''

i 've clearly got mass . where does it come from ?

and edgar rice burroughs actually put himself as a character inside this movie , and as the narrator .

i mean , there are two issues involved here .

and it looked kind of like this .

there 's a much more apocalyptic sort of feeling .

september 11th created a security model in a lot of people 's heads .

so this is what happens in the world , if we play the entire world .

they used to eat , drink and yell out to people on the stage , just like they do at cbgb 's and places like that .

rb : well , there 's — i mean there 's a lot of issues .

this is a recent comic strip from the los angeles times .

three main approaches .

there are three variables .

so maybe , you know , there 's no such thing as crazy , and being diagnosed with a mental illness does n't mean you 're crazy .

we might have to tear those books up and start to look at other options and be open-minded to seek the truth .

what would happen to the other people in the group ?

well , it was n't pretty woman , i can tell you that .

if by 1915 this thing was taking off , imagine without the regulations that happened , if that thing could just keep going .

`` and then he said to me , `` '' what did you want to be when you were little ? '' '' now listen , i was n't going to say to him , `` '' well , i wanted to race cars and motorbikes . '' '' hardly appropriate at this moment in time . ''

this is a map of words joined together as questions and answers , and with these filters applied on top of them in order to modify them to represent certain nuances .

can we build an intelligent computer ?

well , we parents , we parents are pretty sure it 's all worth it .

it 's the fact of poor migrant women selling sex specifically that has some feminists uncomfortable .

do n't they deserve to be in prison ?

professor katey walter from the university of alaska went out with another team to another shallow lake last winter .

submission was the only way for me to make it to another candle .

now of course , your head would be squeezed and stretched unhelpfully , so you might have trouble understanding what 's going on .

and we 're good at it .

( applause ) both groups claim to base their ideology on their holy book .

when we think about the future i paint , of course we should feel a bit of fear .

so we started with the lenses .

well , when you read through the case materials in this carrillo case , one of the things that suddenly strikes you is that the investigating officers said the lighting was good at the crime scene , at the shooting .

they have trademark protection , but no copyright protection and no patent protection to speak of .

we have to ask ourselves these questions , however unpalatable .

countless invading armies have done the same throughout history .

we 've lived in cities for a very long time , but most of us did n't live in cities .

our built environment matters .

the real safety of our nation is preparing this next generation so that they can take our place and be the leaders of the world when it comes to thinking and technology and democracy and all that stuff we care about .

we have opportunities in agriculture , like i said .

the first is how it deals with this obstacle that we 've put in its way . see , look , it does a little dance , and then it carries on in exactly the same direction that it took in the first place .

what i 'm going to show you is i 'm gon na stick my arm into it and i will show you how quickly they will bite .

i want to talk to you about the future of medicine .

it 's not just for the geeks any more .

if we 're not processing life , we 're not living it .

she 's supportive when other people talk about their mistakes .

so they returned to their villages and are told they 're going to get sick and die soon , but five happy years , their logic goes , is better than 10 stuck in a high rise on the outskirts of kiev , separated from the graves of their mothers and fathers and babies , the whisper of stork wings on a spring afternoon .

a button , two guitar picks and lots of hot glue .

so what i want to propose to you as an unconventional way in which we can try to achieve this , because , you see , in one sense , at least , we are all virtuosos like my friend jan stripling .

so we 're experts in physical thinking already .

and of course that 's a highly competitive space .

or take sex .

you ca n't delay that much .

so we talk about a 300 , a batter who bats 300 .

and this is the learning process .

because the web of the ancient manuscripts of the future is n't going to be built by institutions .

still , we need some help with our intuitions .

so very quickly , i was starting to become attacked at my own concerts .

`` in an even more radical stance against consumerism , the company placed a `` '' do n't buy this jacket '' '' advertisement during the peak of shopping season . ''

that gets your adrenaline going .

it is where cell culture takes place .

stromatolites are the heroes in my story .

so that 's our general blood work test .

it was not a main driver of behavior , nor was it a main driver of behavior change .

i study planetary habitability as influenced by stars with the hopes of finding the places in the universe where we might discover life beyond our own planet .

now compare that with real price increments .

what 's another latent body of information that 's out there that people are really not putting to use ?

and the balinese carpenters want to be as modern as we do , so they use metal scaffolding to build the bamboo building and when the scaffolding came down , we realized that we had a cathedral , a cathedral to green , and a cathedral to green education .

in brazil , almost 70 percent of the evaporation that makes rain actually comes from the forest .

it hurt me , and it made me think , what 's the point of making change in the future ?

( laughter ) but it shrunk to 60 percent of primate gut of my body mass .

we 're using it to make better ignorance , to come up with , if you will , higher-quality ignorance .

that 's the whole idea .

the tiny spike on the left to the center is actually the forefather of wheat .

that 's the o-ring .

now unilever did this and it did n't work — too complicated .

i come from norway ; all our heroes are explorers , and they deserve to be .

and that 's the message i try to convey to them .

`` and i 'm thinking , `` '' oh , man ! '' '' what do you do ? ''

so one way of trying to test the theory is to look for such chains inside connectomes .

they got together , and together they had the proof .

physics is really figuring out how to discover new things that are counterintuitive , like quantum mechanics .

if it 's too low , you 're more likely to make too many type ii errors .

it 's a huge challenge to understand .

it 's now in many cities , half the price of a taxi .

and my chest ached .

and if you 're wondering about those other spikes , those are also fridays .

qatar has 74 , and we have that growth rate .

great things happen at intersections .

i was part of a team that was tasked with trying to figure out how best to respond to this humanitarian catastrophe .

so the expansion of space is actually speeding up .

`` and when i complained to my grandmother , a world war ii veteran who worked in film for 50 years and who supported me from the age of 13 , that i was terrified that if i turned down a plum assignment at abc for a fellowship overseas , i would never ever , ever find another job , she said , `` '' kiddo , i 'm going to tell you two things . ''

we have to make it immediately .

the two of these are delivering the best of both worlds .

so these two devices , drivegrip and speedstrip , are very effective .

even if you imagine that this room we are in now exists and is real and here we are , and we have , not only our memories , but our impression that outside there 's something called caltech and the united states and the milky way galaxy , it 's much easier for all those impressions to randomly fluctuate into your brain than for them actually to randomly fluctuate into caltech , the united states and the galaxy .

so how do we think about these questions ?

here is sulaiman abu ghaith , and sulaiman was a key lieutenant of osama bin laden .

and that connection is an unequivocally physical process .

so why work with swarms ?

and they continue to live in the same hut or else in a nearby hut near their children , relatives and lifelong friends .

imagine in the physical world if somebody followed our children around with a camera and a notebook and recorded their every movement .

this is not my home .

`` ( music : `` '' happy together '' '' ) so based on the research by marcelo coelho from mit , hannah created a series of paper speakers out of a wide range of materials from simple copper tape to conductive fabric and ink . ''

but first let me tell you what happened .

freeman dyson , in a ted talk , foresaw that children will design and create new organisms just as routinely as his generation played with chemistry sets .

it 's a school where you do learn reading — one of my favorites — writing — i was bad at it — arithmetic .

i 've been up to its front gates .

`` no more , `` '' charge before use . '' '' so why am i telling you this ? ''

this was 1977 , 1988 , 1992 , '97 and 2002 .

i 've been focusing now on the visual arts , but i want to give two examples from music .

what about men 's views of religion and law ?

we know that microbes are dispersed around by people and by air .

in those days , only a small fraction of the world had been explored , and the earth might have seemed infinite .

you know who to arrest , who to negotiate with .

and he said that he needed those guns because of the trauma he 'd experienced as a young boy .

yet doctors do not treat us and science does not study us .

so , here on the internet you have three major ones .

that 's why the iceberg in this photo looks so blue .

when i talk about simplifying the language . notice !

this has evolved over the years in a lot of different iterations .

it might change my behavior .

if they have the price of entry into an internet cafe — the last time i looked , it was something like a pound an hour — and if you have skype , it 's free .

thank you .

but fortunately , it also works the other way around .

and that is exactly what we found .

it does n't seem that way , does it ?

so , let 's see .

lots of scientists did a lot of work to make crispr happen , and what 's interesting to me is that these scientists are being supported by our society .

but there on that night , i did not stop believing .

think of the space that we spend most of our time .

it was a great event .

so we run this amazing festival , we 've scored some big policy wins , and citizens are signing up all over the world .

this is the jewish version of the same story .

so i 'm just going to go into a different step now , which is easier for me .

more than how a phenomenon works , theoretical physicists are always interested in why a phenomenon works in the way it works .

we need to open our eyes and see that we are not victims .

they flagged down a cab and took him to the hospital .

what if it could be like a conversation , taking turns listening and speaking , just like we do in life ?

`` most people , when they first look at a fresh human brain , they say , `` '' it does n't look what you 're typically looking at when someone shows you a brain . '' '' typically , what you 're looking at is a fixed brain . it 's gray . ''

hp : do n't imitate my voice .

i 've added my location with a google map , and it 's live , so try moving it around .

because as they learn to code , it enables them to learn many other things , opens up many new opportunities for learning .

( laughter ) and this young man , his name is — his last name cruz — he loved it . that 's all over his facebook page and it 's gone viral . ( laughter )

my heart rate was 61 beats per minute — my blood pressure , 127 over 74 .

it would be three times what the saudis claim they have .

in other words , thanks to those pesky laws of physics , when things are n't sustainable , they stop .

so there 's a huge scientific challenge , but there 's a huge economic challenge too .

my partner and i , thom , we had to let all our employees go .

they do n't want to be wearing what everybody else is wearing .

and then , in fact , these people were embedded in other sorts of relationships : marriage and spousal and friendship and other sorts of ties .

yeah , there are organics at the surface of mars .

growing your own food is like printing your own money .

and as it turns out , timing is also really , really important .

we all know how to maintain our physical health and how to practice dental hygiene , right ?

we 're kind of at a tipping point .

why ?

i do n't have an overview .

audience : sex .

do we have a corner on the market ?

so this is all very uncomfortable to talk about .

so , i think he 's icarus and phoenix all in one guy .

but 80 years , we 're just not good at .

to put sulfur dioxide in the stratosphere would cost on the order of a billion dollars a year .

maybe you 're a mediocre earner but a masterful father .

in order to study biofluorescence , we swim at night .

more trust is not an intelligent aim in this life .

so we celebrated .

( applause ) what was interesting is that the media could n't get in .

yet if you did , you would see something very , very similar to this .

the light from the star is diffracting .

he killed 28 .

but the same goes for that , then we 're in the vicious circle of actually coming up with ideas but being frustrated .

he shows us the capacity of ourselves to move into a spiritual realm .

`` i do n't know , what should i do ? '' '' and i was trying to take a picture of her quietly . ''

would my son 's really relaxed and carefree nature become fearful and withdrawn ?

it has n't a clue .

a few years ago i started developing littlebits .

further to the right is more .

so great progress and treatment has been made over the years .

but perhaps their greatest innovation was this .

there are 10,000 species of birds in the world .

`` some months later , i met him at another event and said , `` davi , how did you know that if the forest was destroyed , there 'd be no more rain ? '' ''

`` `` '' what is a shrimp , and why do we have to keep throwing them on the barbie ? '' '' ( laughter ) `` '' and mum — this haircut . ''

and of course , we 've changed the chemistry of the air .

it says very clearly what the drug is for , specifically who it is good for , so you can start to personalize your understanding of whether the information is relevant to you or whether the drug is relevant to you .

chaz told me that if that song had n't played for so long , i might have already been in the car , on the way home , and would have died right there and then .

`` it 's like after every exam , when i walk out , the teacher would say , `` '' hey , come . ''

this is not in what we call the traditional habitable zone , this area around the sun .

joan said it was through my words that she fell in love with me .

we went to africa , sudan , sierra leone , liberia , kenya .

`` ( music : `` '' i still have n't found what i 'm looking for '' '' by u2 ) they did the best they could given that this is what they 're writing for . ''

if we can , i think the vets are going to be fine .

the green ocean has the same clean air , but forms a lot of rain .

in other words , the propensity to find these patterns goes up when there 's a lack of control .

ca : ok .

dennis ' pioneering work is credited with rescuing the papaya industry .

well , nothing pleasant .

and so if you do this , then what you 're conveying is not a sentence in english , but what you 're conveying is really a meaning , the meaning of a sentence in english .

ca : well , god saved her and you got your just reward .

ms : these are the people who shape the way i look at the world .

so foxo turns on a lot of genes .

and instead of sharing money , they become selfish .

and maybe what determines the rate of long-term ptsd is n't what happened out there , but the kind of society you come back to .

and i 'll tell you , any citizen who wants to be seen and heard not as a prop , not as a talking point , but as a participant , as a creator .

so within the next few years , we 'll be able to turn up the soundtrack a little bit , render the universe in audio .

what you find is nine countries around the world that have significant native populations which speak both futureless and futured languages .

you know how newborn babies believe they 're part of everything ; they 're not separate ?

i think these are all important stories , and they have a lot to tell us about what it means to be human , but i want you to note that today i told you a very different story .

bed net funding is up .

`` shut it down at once . '' '' and there 's this huge hubbub . ''

she 's here today with us in the audience .

in the andes , this glacier is the source of drinking water for this city .

look , at home i have two tvs . why ?

that makes me furious .

for me , the worst was the feeling of utter powerlessness .

`` now i have a saying that i feel very strongly about , because i am of a certain age where , when i started in my career , believe it or not , there were other women who criticized me : `` why are n't you in the carpool line ? '' ''

( music ) ( video ) man : okay , glass , record a video .

i wanted it all — home office , sit down dinner for 10 , room for guests , and all my kite surfing gear .

i succeeded in my place .

like the liver and the kidneys , as i 've said , cleaning the air .

at about the same cost as business as usual , this would maximize national security , customer choice , entrepreneurial opportunity and innovation .

i 'm fascinated by the concept of going to a place like venice and actually seeing it during a specific event .

it could take months .

`` but a young german doctor picks up archie cochrane 's exercise book and says to his colleagues , `` '' this evidence is incontrovertible . ''

right ? unbelievable .

so , this is the way it works .

i did n't feel a particular connection with any of the men that i went on dates with , and i did n't feel like they felt a particular connection with me either .

so now we need to figure out how to build consent of the networked .

it 's offensive to have to waste our time like this every single day .

that 's why i think this is important .

thank you so much . tk : thank you very much .

my opinion is that the mossad is involved , but that the leading force is not israel .

they 're storing it , they 're processing it .

hundreds of thousands of people were evacuated at the time of the accident , but not everybody accepted that fate .

they 're relevant for all sorts of different activities .

it 's almost trivial .

and as we started talking to more people about it , more people wanted to hear about it .

at the time , all weapons were made by hand to different specifications .

if it stops us from noticing the problems that are around us , well , that 's bad .

maybe it 's sort of duncey all the way back .

and you have more choice-driven societies .

besides its beauty and functioning , there is another side to it .

first , we observed that not all mosquito species bite on the same part of the body . strange .

it 's rooted in extraction .

this is a space that we will all come to at some point .

but the doctors of the day thought he was crazy , because they knew , and had for hundreds of years , that odorous vapors called miasmas caused disease , not these hypothetical particles that you could n't see .

and i think that 's interesting .

and furthermore , he released mr. carrillo so that he could aid in the preparation of his own defense if the prosecution decided to retry him .

`` so this is actually a dutch company , so i called them up , and i asked , `` can i borrow a heart valve from you ? '' ''

so all of that being said , i still really appreciate those characters in movies and articles like that on our site , that are n't just about being totally powerful , maybe finding your acceptance with yourself and self-esteem and your flaws and how you accept those .

then you take out your knife and start cutting the tumor piece by piece by piece .

and as i mentioned , when it started , we were at the globe , and there was no press .

the biggest challenge is that material science is complex and requires expensive equipment .

about taking you from your own material world into a spiritual world .

i have a son . his name is archie .

how can we do that ?

you 've heard of entropy .

( applause )

that 's carbon .

are there universal laws ?

ss : that sounded great .

thank you so much .

why ? air quality was the reason they used natural gas and got away from diesel .

and i 'm sure that it 's something that we all recognize , and we see that it happens .

seven is prime because it 's 1 x 7 , but we ca n't break it down into any smaller chunks , or as we call them , factors .

a hundred years ago , it 's certainly true that to drive a car you kind of needed to know a lot about the mechanics of the car and how the ignition timing worked and all sorts of things .

some of them are artificial .

( applause )

you 'll see that the heart , for example , lights up there .

he made a left turn on houston , i pulled out my gun , and i said , ' gim me them jordans ! ' and the punk tried to run .

we know what the answers are .

every individual has a role to play .

ice on a planet 's surface is also important for climate .

they stay still , and the vowels dance around the consonants .

i wondered whether these variables held across cases , and if they did , what lessons we could glean for waging constructive conflict , in palestine , israel and elsewhere .

but underneath all that , something that i could n't understand so moved me for reasons i could n't explain to you yet , that i decided to go and live in japan .

this is where it gets weird .

why ? they do n't think we need it .

the health care industry would like stronger protections for inventors .

but this is great fun for children .

this is what i call a — patent pending — global inlet director .

he 's standing on the left with his paintbrush in one hand and his palette in the other .

but what did we find ?

i can not do that unless i send the signals that i will be open to listen to the other side 's signals .

but more than that , people are building green houses around green school , so their kids can walk to school on the paths .

help speak up for them , and help demand a cure .

well i think we kind of did it at the same time , but he 's done it .

so we start at the top , and we color in the cross-section of one branch in red , and we do that for the next slice and for the next slice .

i challenge you to take ownership of your data .

to unlock insights in data , you need decision scientists .

and they also used hydrogen from water .

it was n't abstract stuff in a brochure or in a movie .

so i put the specimen in , which i 'm now going to take out to see what happened .

and this is exactly what i 've been doing .

and third , through intense reflection , he gathered the information that he needed to design and revise the procedure , and then , with a steady hand , he saved my life .

they 've been looking outward for a long time , yet what they were looking for has been right there within grasp , right within them .

now , one way of dealing with this problem is by deterrence .

edi : wow !

this graph represents what we 're dealing with now in the built environment .

`` and moving on to some applications developed by developers and researchers around the world , with robots and simple machines , for example — in this case , flying a toy helicopter simply by thinking `` '' lift '' '' with your mind . ''

viva la revolución de altruismo .

and like the birds , the joy is still there , even though we have changed what we do to fit the context .

this was completely unexpected .

i hope next time you see it , you wo n't even be able to see the map .

( laughter ) so several months ago , a friend of mine sent me this link to this guy , eduardo sousa .

but actually opening up the space to think about different ways of governing , different kinds of politics , and creating the space for civil society and businesses to operate differently — absolutely vital .

the different particles are responsible for all the richness in the world around us .

so i picked up the phone , and i called polo , and in fact he was not feeling well .

it 's rained down in this case on the island of abaco in the bahamas .

the second thing is that the chinese economy passes the u.s. economy in , let 's say , 2030 , which it may it , that will be a measure of total economic size , but not of per capita income — wo n't tell you about the composition of the economy .

and they do n't take care of that community .

even if you do n't like it , you 'll have to get used to this because at the moment , 70 percent of all our agricultural land is being used to produce livestock .

i was trying to get around this plan coupe — how do you do it ?

top board : military power among states .

you have 30 possible foods , and you have to pick five of them .

the unfortunate thing is that now , as we look at the independent analyses of what those climate treaties are liable to yield , the magnitude of the problem before us becomes clear .

it saves our souls and makes us live happily .

in fact , they even warn that information asymmetry can lead to a total market failure .

but to make it more real , if the price of an automobile had fallen as rapidly as the price of computing power , you could buy a car today for five dollars .

in case anyone out there is looking for a job in a recession , that 's the page to go to .

( laughter ) safwat saleem : i 've been a whale .

it has 20 different neuron types .

`` every day there were new deliveries and my kids would exclaim with glee , `` this feels like christmas ! '' ''

of course , if you do n't like to touch people , i can always shove this up your nose .

last year saw 997 billion dollars in corporate fraud alone in the united states .

the building number 3 was the house of uncle bakheet and aunty fareeda .

because none of us — at least in the global north — neither men nor women , are fully exempt from this message .

we make suggestions to the author through the editor to improve the emphasis of a sentence or point out unintentional repetitions and supply compelling alternatives .

so religions are cultures of repetition .

because this looks exactly the same as a stem cell culture , with large green cells surrounding small , immature cells .

so ultimately , i just decided i would leave it in an envelope on the subway .

so it was a pretty successful evening .

teachers paid less than what it costs them to be here .

and i 'm making all those kinds of windows .

and that was largely because there were n't any .

he called it the god complex .

behind each image is a story .

i was lucky .

`` `` johnny , do n't do that . '' ''

`` and my mum said , `` '' darling , remember that you ca n't see and you ca n't feel the picture and you ca n't feel the print on the page . '' '' and i thought to myself , `` '' but that 's what i want to do . ''

i want to talk to you about my kids .

seismic standards and confined masonry , where the building acts as a whole — walls and columns and roofs and slabs tied together to support each other — instead of breaking off into separate members and failing .

we have 25,000 kids in school , four percent overhead .

but my real mentor in this journey of aging is olga murray .

this is one of the major drivers of the recent uprisings , and it is one of the reasons for the rising age of marriage in much of the arab region .

noise goes up , heart rate goes up .

we can cooperate flexibly with countless numbers of strangers , because we alone , of all the animals on the planet , can create and believe fictions , fictional stories .

`` so after six years , my friends and colleagues urged me to publish , so i published `` '' the first case of homosexual necrophilia in the mallard . '' '' and here 's the situation again . ''

because what is taught on the sabbath leaks into our politics , our health policy , violence around the world .

and every 10 minutes , kind of like the heartbeat of a network , a block gets created that has all the transactions from the previous 10 minutes .

but actually , the most exciting part of this new manufacturing revolution goes much beyond productivity .

this year , if you think about it , over a billion couples will have sex with one another .

a year later , i was listening to all the noise about the middle east conflict .

but shipping is n't that .

this is roadkill .

and this is the best one .

one thing that kept me sane while i was in solitary confinement was reading .

a face without a name might help them feel just a little less attached .

tropical rainforests arose , sparking new layers of interdependence .

thank you .

`` and i think it 's all about being afraid of the other , but making that step and then realizing , `` '' hey , this was n't so hard . ''

clinging to rock , and eating it too ... transforming barren land .

and the reason for this is that pigs are actually quite close to human beings , so the collagen is as well .

and even in terms of calories , it is very good .

but basically , you 've got to get out of town as quickly as possible .

mary had a little lamb ! little lamb ! little lamb !

and secondly , it 's trying to remind you of what there is to fear and to hate .

so later , feeling stressed out triggers that urge to smoke a cigarette or to eat something sweet .

`` and i said , `` '' we 're going to come together at the end , we 're going to have a mustache-themed party , we 're going to have djs , we 're going to celebrate life , and we 're going to change the face of men 's health . '' '' and he just looked at me and laughed , and he said , he said , `` '' adam , that 's a really novel idea , but we 're an ultraconservative organization . ''

rats have more genetic material allocated to olfaction than any other mammal species .

actually , no . with cars , it 's not impossible .

i want to make paintings about that .

tm : thank you very much .

and i 'll never forget hearing that story from dr. rachel naomi remen , who told it to me as her grandfather told it to her , that in the beginning of the creation something happened and the original light of the universe was shattered into countless pieces .

so that 's why we do n't think it exists , the sufi masters working on us .

if a woman chooses to stay home to raise her children , i embrace that choice , too .

and if we can understand how these chemicals get into the skeleton , we can then go back , collect fossil specimens , and reconstruct what the ocean used to look like in the past .

it 's more like , say , if you were a dog .

so when i asked him , he told me three things .

and feeding our kids the basic nutrition is just the starting point .

we do n't only tell stories when we set out to tell stories .

so we never advise veterans to turn off caution completely .

hawa abdi : many people — 20 years for somalia — [ were ] fighting .

you place it in an art museum , it becomes a sculpture .

and if it grows very big it probably happens .

he had a side parting and a neat mustache .

what this means is that , while regular acrylic only diffuses light around the edges , this one illuminates across the entire surface when i turn on the lights around it .

but here 's the thing , and this may sound a little weird .

we could n't leave any traces behind .

only you can know .

say , home-building .

most of the time , we 're in the dark .

the heads-up display is a smartphone that displays system parameters .

thank you .

will the vaulter stick the landing ?

jimmy kimmel actually .

i was , i believe , ecologically bored .

`` i want them to take it , but at the same time , i want them to take back their health . '' '' there 's another time when i put a garden in this homeless shelter in downtown los angeles . ''

we 've had to plant seeds , phosphorus , fertilizers , nutrients , water , sunlight .

the first eight make up eight million in total population .

`` and what is your name ? '' '' and i 'm just quiet , unable to respond . ''

there are 20 of these projects , and they are remarkable in their beauty and their diversity , and they are changing people .

carbon dioxide [ levels ] were very much lower than they are today .

as we evolved from our ape-like ancestors on the african savanna , what distinguished us was our larger brains .

so we came up with a radical , almost insane idea .

having the convenience and accessibility of regular screening options that are affordable , noninvasive and could provide results much sooner , would provide us with a formidable weapon in the fight against cancer .

as my research has now shown , all three things are true .

`` and so , on many occasions , i 've been asked by people , `` you know , you 're suffering , why do n't you move back ? '' ''

most people would say for a lot , a lot of money .

but we have to integrate that into our own future .

now i trained in medicine in india , and after that i chose psychiatry as my specialty , much to the dismay of my mother and all my family members who kind of thought neurosurgery would be a more respectable option for their brilliant son .

there are now some 3,000 of these centers employing about 15,000 people in africa .

we built the bright new reception hall that made people , tirana citizens , think they had traveled abroad when they entered to make their requests .

the rest of the land can be used for something else .

we may all have different opinions about this .

it had all the qualities of foie gras , but its fat had a lot of integrity and a lot of honesty .

okay . so why can that be ? why is that ?

what i rather wish to say is that the humanity we all share is more important than the mental illness we may not .

and when i have conversations with people , i remember having a conversation , for example , in iraq , with a community that asked me whether the riot we were seeing in front of us , this was a huge mob ransacking a provincial council building , was a sign of the new democracy .

`` `` '' who is entitled to what ? ''

on the free market of individual desires , i negotiate my value every day .

better to err on the side of caution .

but there is a new , technological institution that will fundamentally change how we exchange value , and it 's called the blockchain .

these are n't random mutations .

these are pigeons in rotterdam .

that 's one equation .

`` letters thanking us , but sometimes you also get funny letters like this one : `` now i understand why there is braille on a drive-up atm machine . '' ''

or they could operate without having to cut you open in the first place .

in the next five years , the next billion consumers in china will inject more growth in our economies than the top five european markets together .

they 're over .

i spent that night in a cold cement floor in the jail , and that got me thinking .

this is tiny when expressed in familiar units , because it 's equal to something like 10 to the minus 22 grams , but it is large in particle physics units , because it is equal to the weight of an entire molecule of a dna constituent .

and the last operation was to think about the cell , the small cell of the project , like the apartment , as an essential part of the master plan .

and there was no window in my room , but it was great to just imagine it coming down all sticky .

`` it 's called the altiplano , or `` '' high plains '' '' — a place of extremes and extreme contrasts . ''

but these surveys are costly , so they can only be done [ in ] three- to five-year intervals .

and she makes them so they could either be broken up into payments , or they could be like these , which are leaves that can be payments .

now , plutonium , 10 to 13 pounds : this . this is enough plutonium to create a nagasaki-size atomic weapon .

it really is going to be a side effect of what we , collectively , make of these kinds of efforts .

now , is this correct ?

they can do some simple math .

that means that ballplayer batted safely , hit safely three times out of 10 at bats .

i was relatively inhibited compared to the cybercriminals , who would n't be so concerned by law , and here you can see my mobile device .

gravity is one thing that we ca n't see and which we do n't understand .

( applause ) why did the owner of the manuscript do this ?

in the himalayas , the third largest mass of ice : at the top you see new lakes , which a few years ago were glaciers .

whereas the future self wants the present self to save .

i was in high school and got a bad grade , a rare event for me , so i decided to hide it from my parents .

this is tootsie 's orchid lounge in nashville .

( applause )

`` and he looked at me , and he just nodded , and he said , `` '' we 're going to be okay . ''

is it a hookup , a love story , paid sex , a chat room , a massage with a happy ending ?

this was in the 90s during the peak of the hiv epidemic , before there were any arvs in sub-saharan africa .

i ventured on my two-year , 27,000 mile journey to learn where , why , and how white people are fleeing , but i did n't expect to have so much fun on my journey .

who in the room has a mobile phone with you ?

we have here a little brain in a dish — a little piece of a brain , actually .

so i started thinking and listing what all it was that i thought would make a perfect biennial .

they have no semantic meaning .

here are stress-strain curves generated by tensile testing five fibers made by the same spider .

so that begs the question : who is the human genome project actually for ?

and if you remember that we need to increase agricultural production by 70 percent , we 're not going to make it that way .

livers and internal organs sort of take a bit longer . a spine takes several years .

when we saw this , we felt that this is something that can have significant impact in the world .

for me , going blind was a profound blessing , because blindness gave me vision .

now there 's one problem with robots like this .

but in the end , business grew bigger than ever .

the u.s. news & world report ranks colleges just as the consumer report rates washing machines .

adultery has existed since marriage was invented , and so , too , the taboo against it .

in development , the evaluation comes at the very end of the project .

this is the room that bach wrote some of his music for . this is the organ .

sadly , he died in a light plane crash in 2005 , but his memory lives on in my heart .

i 'm really glad to say — recently , we 've been in correspondence with ryan — that this story had a happy ending .

because , as you can see , it was crescent shaped .

a terrorist attack .

the other thing we have not done is that our economies retain the same structure that we 've had for decades .

she realizes that she probably has much more in common with him than with anybody entirely of korea or entirely of germany .

now this is being augmented with further layers of technology like augmented reality .

for the first few days , they were always refusing anything we were offering them , even a snack or a drink .

the people will not accept .

both black holes are moving .

awww .

we speak differently .

see this one ?

five : i served as a law clerk to two us supreme court justices .

this could be the beginning of the end of the mental health epidemic .

and when they 're stuck in the studio , brian eno will reach for one of the cards .

thank you .

now , let 's put aside the online anonymous sex chatrooms , which i 'm sure none of you have been in .

two and a half million people will be permanently disabled or displaced , and the communities will take 20 to 30 years to recover and billions of economic losses .

and to be fair , it 's not entirely their fault .

so those two things combined meant that a different kind of music worked best in these kind of halls .

let 's take a look at what 's going on in different space types in this building .

are they disney princess fans ?

i mean , you have the typical european cities , with a dense urban core , good public transportation mostly , not a lot of road capacity .

`` ( `` '' you are my first israelian friend . i wish we both get rid of our idiot politicians , anyway nice to see you ! '' '' ) ( `` '' i love that blue . i love that star . i love that flag . '' '' ) this one is really moving for me because it 's the story of a girl who has been raised in iran to walk on an israeli flag to enter her school every morning , and now that she sees the posters that we 're sending , she starts — she said that she changed her mind , and now she loves that blue , she loves that star , and she loves that flag , talking about the israeli flag , ''

this is what excites me .

at the end of my first week there , i found myself helping out in an evacuation center in the town .

and sometimes , it 's not in spite of those qualities but because of them that they succeed .

religions ca n't be dismissed or ignored .

but i am optimistic that , in the long run , times are changing , and they and their ideas will gain ground .

and it 's also clear that we will never achieve that unless we 're capable of redefining a meaningful sense of prosperity in the richer nations , a prosperity that is more meaningful and less materialistic than the growth-based model .

so let 's take an example , measure the things that are important in your business .

and if you look at historical pictures of the early operating rooms , they have been on top of buildings .

neurological damage , 10 years of rehab , requires a long-term perspective .

`` it 's not just one dude making one poster , it 's — we can be part of it , so they start sending me pictures and ask me , `` '' make me a poster . post it . ''

( applause )

never before have we in the west been so scrutinized .

and each gene gives us a fingerprint .

in fact , in my office in 1990 , i had 18 miles of tape .

fg : well , i 've always just ...

google is one of our big partners here .

a remarkable and counterintuitive phenomenon has been discovered , which scientists call post traumatic growth .

they are surrounded by immunized people .

`` i 'm starting to get emails from people that say stuff like , `` '' hey , can i come to your open night and , like , maybe use crispr and engineer my genome ? '' '' ( laugher ) like , seriously . ''

and you can make that change .

and here 's dr. raj shah , the head of usaid , making that announcement .

and i noticed that they would move this little thermoregulatory device to change the temperature in their home by one degree or two degrees .

and you can see the symptoms almost completely go away , and the psycho-social stress has dropped significantly , which is explicable , because you can not take away the psycho-social stresses , but you can learn how to cope with them .

number one . action item number one : remember , it 's not good enough just to tolerate people who disagree .

it 's the place where you stand .

and that 's why every connectome is unique , even those of genetically identical twins .

and those are not 20 percent by 2020 .

and these skeletons have a particular set of behaviors , which i 'm going to demonstrate in a film .

i want to thank her too .

but those guns were really a message for me , and even though he had n't raised a hand to me , my life was already in grave danger every minute of every day .

this is an mri mra mrv , a volumetric mri .

you may think that 's a weapon right there . in fact , that 's a stamp . i used a stamp to defend canada 's borders . ( laughter ) very canadian of me . i learned a lot about deception while doing my duty here in customs , one of which was that most of what i thought i knew about deception was wrong , and i 'll tell you about some of that tonight .

sleep deprivation is absolutely pervasive .

einstein was fond of this idea .

it has pores , it has sweat glands , it has all these things that work together very dynamically and very efficiently , and so what i propose is that our building skins should be more similar to human skin , and by doing so can be much more dynamic , responsive and differentiated , depending on where it is .

i grew up in a musical family .

five-year-olds lie outright .

this is a picture of a big , new city center that 's being built in south korea — bigger than downtown boston .

the low roof keeps everybody seated and at equal eye level .

but i 'm still suggesting you and i should meet .

and i think it really brings to light : is this really scalable ?

but as soon as we go hunting for massive primes , we realize it 's not enough just to put in any prime number in the power .

socrates died in prison , his philosophy intact .

whatever .

behind the destruction , i found a soul of places .

ca : can we see that ? em : yeah .

in every society where incomes have risen , so has protein consumption .

it 's true that i had teachers that did n't give up on me , and i was very fortunate to have those teachers , because i often gave them cause to think there was no reason to invest in me .

you go on the back of that truck , it takes your photo , 30 seconds later take it from the side , you 're ready to rock .

that was the future , right ?

`` they would be really useful . '' '' or , `` '' how can we help ? '' '' i presume that you belong to the second category , and that 's good , because for that project , i 'm going to ask you to take the photos and paste them . ''

so the truckers are just going about their business , and they 're buying fuel .

greatest runner . she would challenge anybody .

here 's another way to be assertive but still be likable , and that is to signal flexibility .

talk to any astrophysicist .

now why would you use rats ?

i want to plant a whole block of gardens where people can share in the food in the same block .

so with paper , copper tape , lightbulb and a battery , people can complete this project for under a dollar .

we can tweet , and oh , lots and lots of people can see our tweets , except when they ca n't , except when actually twitter is blocked from their country , or in some way the way we try to express ourselves has put some information about the state of ourselves , the state of the country we live in , which is n't available to anybody else .

the first is nick rhoades . he 's an american .

these are the events we tend to concentrate on .

next , they went and looked through his personal history for any incriminating details .

what i am trying to say is that we have to understand why some of our young people are attracted to this .

we as diplomats need to know the social capital of communities .

the self that i attempted to take out into the world was rejected over and over again .

this is just the beginning , because the real disruption happening is n't technological .

however , there was a lot of skepticism around this .

basically they went to the ballot boxes to tell that they have nobody to vote for .

and tata had gotten its start as a communications business when they bought two cables , one across the atlantic and one across the pacific , and proceeded to add pieces onto them , until they had built a belt around the world , which means they will send your bits to the east or the west .

you can see beautiful bubblegum corals .

and no matter how logistically possible it is to end poverty , we need a lot more resources .

they did n't think they 'd done a good job even though they had .

we inform the people they aim to hurt far sooner than they had ever anticipated .

men relied on women 's fidelity in order to know whose children these are , and who gets the cows when i die .

ca : so this interior is philippe starcke designed ?

( laughter ) and in those days , i developed an ear to identify birds just by the sound of the bangs they made against the glass .

they 're just being reinvented in ways that are relevant for the facebook age .

( applause )

you can shuffle cards in a variety of ways .

we also need to do a better job at being able to figure out which are the diseases that most threaten us .

tj : i would still want to know that you could do that and get below zero by the end of the century , in terms of taking carbon out of the atmosphere , and solve the problem of biodiversity and reduce the impact on land use and do something about the erosion of topsoils and the quality of water .

i blow bubbles and they pop them .

world war ii came to an end , and goering was captured , tried at nuremberg and ultimately sentenced to death .

today it 's two dollars and forty cents .

we were expecting new particles and new phenomena accompanying the higgs boson .

`` and if you do n't know colleen , she 's an artist , and i asked her , `` '' well , what 's it like out there in the stratosphere of our idea space ? '' '' and apparently it smells like bacon . ''

you know ? this is a fantastic reaction from someone , very genuine video that they 've shot in their back garden .

`` when it 's built , you 'll finally be able to understand how a computer works , because rather than having a tiny chip in front of you , you 've got to look at this humongous thing and say , `` '' ah , i see the memory operating , i see the cpu operating , i hear it operating . i probably smell it operating . '' '' ( laughter ) but in between that we 're going to do a simulation . ''

that object was about 19 meters across , or about as big as a convenience store .

it 's pretty hot .

and let me tell you what the problem is with acting out of fear — and this is the second level of civil response : fear .

`` ( laughter ) i wanted to race cars , and i wanted to be a cowgirl , and i wanted to be mowgli from `` '' the jungle book . '' '' because they were all about being free , the wind in your hair — just to be free . ''

and the rest , as they say , is history .

you can tweet a message and start a protest in egypt .

just to give you a hint of that , let 's look back at that oecd graph that we were talking about .

but during a police crackdown on sex workers and their clients , she was forced to work alone to avoid being arrested .

those movies are never about beautiful utopias .

he then turned to being a waterskier and was a champion disabled waterskier .

and the first thing that went right was , of course , these five revolutions which , in my view , very much changed the way we 're living and deepened our democratic experience .

here 's a woman who 's about to get a dose of the brown stuff in those syringes , which is what you think it is , except not quite , because it 's actually donated .

the right of peoples to live together in the same state , worshiping differently , freely — a middle east , a world , in which religion is not the subject of division or of debate .

those are the fruits , if they 're tomato , that go to the tomato soup .

we only have two days of water reserve .

i 'm going to make a sound .

we used to be told that a coward goes home to his mother .

and we 've got to end up with a smaller government .

so this is the stuff that we do .

( applause )

no one has ever walked from the very coast of antarctica to the south pole and back again .

so to invoke another metaphor , if you imagine social networks as a kind of vast fabric of humanity — i 'm connected to you and you to her , on out endlessly into the distance — this fabric is actually like an old-fashioned american quilt , and it has patches on it : happy and unhappy patches .

they do n't have any ontic cloud of their own .

so this is a chair — as a matter of fact , it 's actually a massage chair .

he was going to tattoo little black dots on the right side of my face and make me look very symmetric .

and for the next three years , her fate will be having sex with him every day , as a favor for getting her in school .

all of us have disabilities in one form or another .

and how many times would my self have to die before i realized that it was never alive in the first place ?

that 's what putin wanted to talk about .

and i initially ended up in the business section of the bookstore looking for a business solution .

well a couple of things : understanding of the security , of the risks , the threats , the countermeasures , how they work .

now , why is that ? anyone knows , by the way ?

snapchat , the service which is used mainly by younger generations and claims that its messages only have the lifespan of a few seconds .

`` if you see the word `` '' microfinance , '' '' what comes to mind ? ''

this was the last 15 years before the crash , and you can see there , consumer debt rose dramatically .

it was about two meters high , completely squashed by the violence of the earthquake .

now , i think this has implications for how we teach kids in school and how we encourage innovation in our workspaces , but thinking about play and delight this way also helps us detect what 's coming next .

maria spivak : yeah .

it 's not just that you say it 's more pleasurable , you say you like it more , you really experience it in a different way .

`` and he slashed so many budgets that people said they could n't afford paintings anymore , and they needed to have their portrait `` a la silhouette . '' ''

200 million dollars is just way too expensive .

it 's more with less and less again .

ca : that 's not 30 percent a year , that 's — ms : yes , thirty percent a year .

the suicide rate went down .

so take your mind back and think of the first sustainable products .

`` `` sub-prime pedaling . '' `` barclays takes you for a ride . '' ''

now what ?

thank you .

to understand power diffusion put this in your mind : computing and communications costs have fallen a thousandfold between 1970 and the beginning of this century .

and very often violence is a way to cope with it .

and our brains — our celebrated brains — reflect a drainage of a tidal marsh .

so we all sat down and we realized , money is coming in — how amazing .

you 're kind of building a new type of distributed utility .

but we ca n't read each other 's minds . i find that quite astonishing .

it 's been created ; nobody knows .

but now web video has made it so that any of us or any of the creative things that we do can become completely famous in a part of our world 's culture .

now how many previous offenses do you think they have on average managed to commit ?

what is the cost of that battery ?

trying to change human nature .

i went through the forbes top 300 richest people in the world , and it 's interesting to see the most undesirable two animals , the goat and tiger , are at the top of the chart , even higher than the dragon .

thank you very much .

this is one of my favorite photos , because this was taken on tuesday , when i asked the students to go to the polls .

i had no idea where to begin .

so if you think of knowledge being this ever-expanding ripple on a pond , the important thing to realize is that our ignorance , the circumference of this knowledge , also grows with knowledge .

i was creating commitment devices of my own long before i knew what they were .

let 's get into the butterfly 's wings .

and at 16 , i stumbled across another opportunity , and i earned my first acting role in a film .

( applause )

well we 've seen already that quite some of you already ate insects maybe occasionally , but i can tell you that every one of you is eating insects , without any exception .

so it really has been a simple but powerful tool in my own reflection .

ever since i can remember thinking consciously about such things , communication has been my central passion .

are my pants too tight ?

vertically , you have the time .

so they made a calculated risk .

when i meet a glacier for the very first time , what do i do ?

well i 'm afraid not .

`` it 's boring . um , who cares , and it sucks . '' '' these sympathetic smiles spread all throughout the room now , and i realize that all of my other students are in the same boat , that maybe they took notes or they memorized definitions from the textbook , but not one of them really understood the main ideas . ''

lc : i think it 's 100 percent .

companies are the makers of their fortunes , and like all of us , they are utterly exposed to serendipity .

so some people believe that the indus script represents an ancient indo-european language such as sanskrit .

ice cover waxed and waned .

so when we look out into the solar system , where are the possibilities ?

`` and i love when people come there and look up and they say , `` wow , there 's brooklyn , and it 's so close . '' ''

couples who are looking for greater happiness , greater sexual happiness in their married lives , but are at a loss of how to achieve it , especially wives , who are afraid of being seen as bad women if they show some spark in the bedroom .

what can we do to the mosquito ?

grab her waist , come up back into her first , whoom , spin , turn her , whoo-aa . ( snaps ) great .

it will happen .

i 'm a performer .

they simply move together .

it 's now the largest single collection of human voices ever gathered .

many seek .

yes and no .

there 's a very young , attractive lady over here , and she has something which i think 's the worst form of psychological , physical injury i 've ever seen out of a suicide bombing : it 's human shrapnel .

so i 'd like you to image a mining industry in a way that one has n't existed before ; imagine a mining industry that does n't mean defiling the earth ; imagine bacteria helping us do this by accumulating and precipitating and sedimenting minerals out of desalination brine .

the next spring , it did n't form two communities like every year , which may have led the whole colony to die because it had become too small .

sometimes , we ask ourselves if we can save the vets .

have you asked yourselves why and how so many dictatorships have collapsed over the last 30 years ?

a group of artists decided to paint a life-size tank on a wall . it 's one to one .

here is our tradition : at every himba village , there is a sacred fire .

it has an extraordinary lightness and yet , it is also amazing balanced .

i remember eating the eyes of a fish right out of the sea because he told me it was brain food .

my first date was colin .

the 0.1 percent in the u.s .

if you get a little baby , and you abuse it verbally , its little brain sends out chemicals that are so destructive that the little part of its brain that can tell good from bad just does n't grow , so you might have yourself a homegrown psychotic .

i was having so much fun with this process .

it was n't the only passion i had .

some of them were pitchpole capsizes , flipping her end over end , and rowing became impossible .

and maybe that image will help us change something .

some of them look like places i lived in as a graduate student .

all the conversations were done at very peculiar times of the day — over the phone .

it might seem frivolous , but it 's not .

madam , can you take the dollar bill ?

you could add on a lot of extra memory if you wanted to .

though , i kind of wondered if left alone on a desert island , if this was how they would choose to spend their time .

i mean who would put themselves through that ?

a doctor comes in from a block away , stop us , checks the kid , and tells us to stop cpr .

and yet we , the vast and still far too silent majority , have ceded the public arena to this extremist minority .

thank you all very much . thank you .

we forward in this generation triumphantly .

we associate repetition with boredom .

my question really is , where is all the female superhero stuff ?

so that was pretty exciting .

well , what about india ?

i gave you a very small example of how one thing , the use of color , can make change happen .

that day i made a very hard decision .

and so , the student tries again , and now they got it right , and they 're told that , and they can move on to the next assignment .

and that 's changed now because , as journalists , we interact in real time . we 're not in a position where the audience is reacting to news .

we look at the savings rate and it has been declining since the 1950s .

there were some encouraging men along the way , but none knew the demands and pressures i was facing , pressures that got particularly acute when i had my own two beautiful children .

it may have looked something like this .

you have your list .

i thanked her , assuming it was fake , like almost everything else for sale in dongguan .

and this is interesting from an artistic point of view .

and if you put those two facts together , it means that your experiences can change your connectome .

we all know this is a temporary solution .

it leads to couples obsessed with performance who will break up , just like that , at the slightest underachievement .

so what you have is natural gas is the bridge fuel , is the way i see it .

indeed , reputation is a currency that i believe will become more powerful than our credit history in the 21st century .

i have six older brothers and a sister .

thank you .

and then , of course , in the natural course of things , they will expand back .

we want others to be better than we were , and indeed , others have been better .

`` and just in case he did , i built a backup plan , by reading the `` '' left behind '' '' books that were all the rage at the time . ''

and in fact , a few years later in 2000 , five percent of the world population were using the world wide web .

and one of the tools i like personally is using video .

for me , i 'm a proud saudi woman , and i do love my country , and because i love my country , i 'm doing this .

since , our work has focused on building driving cars that can drive anywhere by themselves — any street in california .

now , to be clear , technology does empower in multiple ways .

if it has a subject , the subject is adolescence .

yet he can still be influenced by a principal who had opened up a school that believes in all children .

we live in a modern , global world .

those countries can fall off the map .

memetics is morally neutral . and so it should be .

so now we wanted to try to understand something about what controls the duration of this state .

it was agony .

but what are your fish eating ?

on everything ever produced under islamic or arab patronage in the past 1,400 years , from spain to the borders of china .

no , no , go ahead , honey .

so we began this journey , and we launched it in 1999 .

`` africa has had a long tradition of writing , but this is not such a well-known fact , and i wrote the book `` '' afrikan alphabets '' '' to address that . ''

from eric mazur , i learned about peer instruction , that peers can be the best teachers , because they 're the ones that remember what it 's like to not understand .

the question is : has that damage erased the connectome ?

and when you look at what we 're using the oil for , 70 percent of it is used for transportation fuel .

both projects are in emerging countries , one in ethiopia and another one in tunisia .

so from 2007 to 2015 , risen lived under the specter of going to federal prison .

then you 'll see it flip and fly out that 50,000 kilometers away from the telescope .

according to researchers at the university of new hampshire seven percent of all child pornography possession arrests are teens , sexting consensually with other teens .

giving birth killed , in the cleanest hospitals , almost one woman out of every 100 .

during that analysis i paid special attention to the medina that is this 1,000-year-old structure that used to be closed by a wall , opened by twelve different gates , connected by almost straight lines .

i still remember young women being driven to my clinic by their moms — adults , who had to be helped into my exam room by their mothers .

and i see that we , ordinary people , can do what aung san suu kyi and ghandi and mandela did .

this should be taught in schools .

it 's much easier just to buy it off the internet than to extract the few grains that actually occur in these diapers .

now goering was , by all accounts , a terrible man .

each of you owns a piece of that $ 5 trillion prize .

a german prison camp .

`` in the newspaper it said `` it was all part of a normal process . '' ''

and so a few years ago — fours years ago , actually — i set out to say , is there a way we can communicate science and technique and wonder ?

so why should we be concerned about this ?

ak : i 'll take a step back .

simple business question .

but this is only one half of the story .

throw it into the audience again .

this was a reality of a world in which there were almost no mental health professionals at all .

what would you choose ?

i 've been a bear .

all of our beautiful wild species of bees are at risk , including those tomato-pollinating bumblebees .

( applause ) ha : thank you very much . dm : thank you very much .

( video ) narrator : some 1,500 miles south of the tropics , between chile and bolivia , the andes completely change .

and we 've grown our economies so much that we now stand in a real danger of undermining hope — running down resources , cutting down rainforests , spilling oil into the gulf of mexico , changing the climate — and the only thing that has actually remotely slowed down the relentless rise of carbon emissions over the last two to three decades is recession .

we did n't have more .

he wades in to above his waist .

even in the first seven days , there was one parody for every other day of the week .

they actually act like an insurance .

it is generic .

it 's about a woman called justine sacco .

we did n't know how critical those first three years were .

( audience : shopping . ) dm : shopping .

you fear the world i want to live in , and i fear your visions in turn .

most of them work for companies .

and they 're a lot more reverberant than la scala .

in order to get target theories , we remember that it 's definitely hardcore sabotage , it must be a high-value target and it is most likely located in iran , because that 's where most of the infections had been reported .

a few years ago , donna decided to get out ahead of the new standards that were coming , and overhaul her nutrition standards .

it 's happening !

most people imagine orphanages as a benign environment that care for children .

a room like this has acoustics , this one very good acoustics .

we ran this test 16 times , and 16 times it went into the exact same place to a tenth of a millimeter .

it 's not just a matter of making the time or having the know-how .

so here 's exhibit number one .

my parents came from countries that did n't exist when they were born .

turns out , nothing .

jm : thank you all .

( laughter ) so i make other hats as well .

my mental illness — well , i 'm not even going to talk about my mental illness .

and i got up off the seat of my bike , and i started pumping my legs , and as i sucked in the cold mountain air , i could feel it burning my lungs , and i looked up to see the sun shining in my face .

what i have in mind is our policy of bail .

bg : thank you .

my journey from international student to american citizen took 16 years , a short timeline when you compare it to other immigrant stories .

but personally , for me , the fact that picquart was anti-semitic actually makes his actions more admirable , because he had the same prejudices , the same reasons to be biased as his fellow officers , but his motivation to find the truth and uphold it trumped all of that .

dance has never had a better friend than technology .

too much rain overflows into the river .

there were three things in it that i had to challenge .

put it in a teapot , it becomes the teapot .

moholy 's ideas were as bold and incisive as ever , but his approach to design was too experimental , as was his insistence on seeing it , as he put it , as an attitude , not a profession to be in tune with the times .

`` so , it makes one wonder , `` '' why is it there ? '' '' i mean , why is there that stop sign in each direction ? ''

today we have sexting , and i am a sexting expert .

the workers still come the next day , they do their job , but they 're following different instructions .

( applause ) i believe we have barely scratched the surface in terms of what 's left to discover .

and then the news cycle moved on .

we 're modeling here a medical delivery in a camp we set up after the 2010 earthquake .

and it 's no surprise that this is my specialty .

as we design these things , we could be thinking about designing these invisible worlds , and also thinking about how they interact with our personal ecosystems .

i saw a spark of hope .

oh yes , that 's right , i remember those ; i had my whole bathroom tiles redone with those back in the good old days .

another explanation that you often hear for recklessness is hubris .

so we 've commenced this particular journey , and we 've commenced this journey in an unusual way .

i see it in our business leaders .

most people do pick the paper .

but on a global basis , 93 percent of all the extra heat energy is trapped in the oceans .

in 1900 , for example , nobody was killed by cars in the united states .

this is a map of where we grow our food in the world .

each of these universes has extra dimensions .

`` and i swear to god , i walked out of his office , `` '' i will drive . i will drive . ''

we need a new new deal .

what are we going to do about this big bee bummer that we 've created ?

we now have sources of power like the sun that do n't vary with our earthly dramas .

he wrote as much in his journal .

and i think there are really three things we can take away from coca-cola .

jews are very interested in forgiveness and how we should start anew and start afresh .

it did n't matter if it did n't create a day of peace .

this is where that 77 cents on the dollar comes from .

so let me step back and ask : what 's power ?

so when an affair is exposed , what are some of the specific things that couples can do ?

and maybe they 're even set really differently in animals with no senescence at all — but we do n't know .

in one highly viewed episode , a soap opera lead actress was killed by a stray bullet .

blind people want to work too .

that 's the dream of the job .

the nature conservancy did a survey of young people , and they asked them , how often do you spend time outdoors ?

i have to admit something to you .

the box on the left shows the wavelike , spread-out distribution of a quantum entity — a particle , like an electron , which is not a little ball bouncing off a wall .

i [ did ] a master 's degree in economics .

i just want you to think a little bit about what the experience of driving is like now .

you can see , with independence , literacy improved and vaccinations started , smallpox was eradicated , hygiene was improved , and things got better .

what followed that election was terrible violence , rape , and the killing of over 1,000 people .

you see , i searched far and wide , but never bothered to look close and near .

we have 10 million cars by region .

this is alex , the best computer voice i 've been able to find , which comes as standard equipment on every macintosh .

ok. so a little bit of chemistry now .

many of you are aware of that .

in fact , the toughest dragline in this survey is this one right here in this white region , a non orb-web-weaving spider .

now , another time we feel more confident speaking up is when we have expertise .

the live duck mounted the dead duck , and started to copulate .

the point is , when it comes to universes and the dark energy that they contain , it may also be the right kind of reasoning .

i 'm a novelist , and i 'm interested in the self because the self and fiction have a lot in common .

it was lively .

copy editors , too , have a code ; we do n't advertise our oversights .

now our sun will not collapse to a black hole .

he was an economically rational person .

and there is a group in holland that has 600 small , dutch companies .

and when they 're gone the natural environment starts to come back very rapidly .

`` the psychiatrist says , `` '' you 're crazy . '' '' the guy says , `` '' i want a second opinion . '' '' the psychiatrist says , `` '' all right , you 're ugly . '' '' ( laughter ) you all know the test for artificial intelligence — the turing test . ''

but the revenues are much greater if the drug treats a million people .

so we quickly learned that our garage was not big enough to hold our growing operation .

so if you 're driving on the freeway and you want to know where 's the next gas station , you have a map to tell you that that gas station is down the road .

so something can be done , even in such extreme environments as afghanistan .

the biggest danger is achieving a dream that you do n't actually believe in .

a few years ago , i spent months in europe to see the major international art exhibitions that have the pulse of what is supposed to be going on in the art world .

contrary to what most people think , people do n't pay , taxpayers do n't pay , for your life when you 're in prison . you 've got to pay for your own life .

( applause )

three million set aside , 62 billion dollar liability — much worse than the car companies .

`` my name 's tavi gevinson , and the title of my talk is `` '' still figuring it out , '' '' and the ms paint quality of my slides was a total creative decision in keeping with today 's theme , and has nothing to do with my inability to use powerpoint . ( laughter ) so i edit this site for teenage girls . i 'm a feminist . ''

we were inspired by sylvia earle , who won the ted prize in 2009 .

givers are more likely to name people who are below them in a hierarchy , who do n't have as much power , who can do them no good .

it 's the whole book .

our cultural imagination about compassion has been deadened by idealistic images .

and so you end up with two choices .

but then , on the other hand , you have the american cities .

and with these pictures , i hope that we can create information , a system of information .

shift of subject . quickly drop by climate .

and the aurochs was like the bison .

and she 'll come to encarta , one of the main online encyclopedias .

i felt compelled to do something , so i went over and i confronted the husband .

and when it vanishes , earth becomes mars .

and my skull 's crushed and my collar bone is crushed ; all but two of my ribs , my pelvis and both arms — they 're all crushed , but there is still a pulse .

at first , the first thing i thought was , i want to run away .

we have to unleash the genius of our young people , get out of their way , support them to create and innovate and lead the way .

so with these companies having so much power over the public discourse , they need to be held accountable .

and only 36 percent is in the tangible industries of manufacturing and agriculture .

third : invite talent .

over thousands of years ago , he proved that for us .

too often , i think history 's what i call the mount rushmore model .

but today 's energy system is not just inefficient , it is also disconnected , aging , dirty and insecure .

imagine if they had condoms , giving out to all sorts of people .

it 's remarkable .

so let 's make him selfish . and this is what you get .

what 's also really cool here is it 's not that hard to make these things .

she had died hours before of malnutrition and dehydration .

what do you have to replace it ?

it 's more like that .

bob dylan is 23 years old , and his career is just reaching its pinnacle .

we can do a lot of things with the material .

you 've heard about that concept : responsibility to protect .

will be even more fascinating .

there are the layers , you can kind of see it .

and then i creep up to the point that i get a score of 79 , which is just below average .

and we calculated several scenarios , and the picture always looked like this .

and we asked ourselves the question : what makes these systems resilient and enduring ?

but what we can not deny is that the way trust flows through society is changing , and it 's creating this big shift away from the 20th century that was defined by institutional trust towards the 21st century that will be fueled by distributed trust .

and we can organize to overcome oppression by opening our hearts as well as strengthening this incredible resolve .

in the next scene , wall-e comes back to life .

so when i thought about it , then suddenly i realized that biology gave us the answer .

`` this might be somewhat difficult to grasp now that we use the word `` '' awesome '' '' to describe a new app or a viral video . ''

they do everything for them .

it would stop , and then start , and then stop , and then start .

but when it comes to knocking the brand , if the terrorists are coca-cola and we 're pepsi , i do n't think , being pepsi , anything we say about coca-cola , anyone 's going to believe us .

music : dj shadow .

so you 've got food economy and local food at the top , you 've got greenhouse gases , solar and nuclear waste .

i wanted to learn to skip , and she found an old rope and she tucked up her sari and she jumped over it .

so i wrapped the door handle .

and then at lunchtime , i watched with an increasingly sick feeling as the eldest girl in the family cooked porridge as a substitute for lunch .

♫ if she beat the tambourine ♫ ♫ to her beguiling dance , all eyes were glowing admiringly . ♫ ♫ she reawakened in me , ♫ ♫ mine is the same lot . ♫ ♫ i dance like her at midnight ♫ ♫ and from deep within i feel : ♫ ♫ my lips , they give so fiery a kiss , ♫ ♫ my limbs , they are supple and soft . ♫ ♫ it is written for me in the stars , ♫ ♫ thou shalt kiss , thou shalt love . ♫ ♫ and i dance as if entranced , 'cause i know , ♫ ♫ my lips give so fiery a kiss . ♫

we need to go from lectures on the blackboard to online exercises , online videos .

my primary responsibility was uganda , but also i worked in rwanda and burundi and zaire , now congo , tanzania , malawi , and several other countries .

and you hear a rustle in the grass .

our school would show bill nye the science guy .

( applause )

actually , you did n't even live together .

now , recently i 've been told i 've been taking the high road .

we revel in the fact that we have this wonderful free speech .

for four decades gaddafi 's tyrannical regime destroyed the infrastructure as well as the culture and the moral fabric of libyan society .

it turns out that previous studies show , like this one by saddler and good , that peer grading is a surprisingly effective strategy for providing reproducible grades .

the encyclopedia is just one in a long line of arabic erotica , much of it written by religious scholars .

so it was the spread of tuberculosis and the spread of cholera that i was responsible for inhibiting .

here 's a theory : could it be that those ties to ancestral soil , the soft variables reflected in their aphorisms , actually affect longevity ?

on the y-axis is the cumulative instances of contagion , and on the x-axis is the time .

he did it for two reasons .

rather than bring nature into our laboratories and interrogate it there , we need to bring our science into the majestic laboratory that is nature , and there , with our modern technological armamentarium , interrogate every new form of life we find , and any new biological attribute that we may find .

i believed mine until it broke apart .

and if you spend a lot of time in hospital , you 'll see a lot of types of irrationalities .

i think that arabic script touches your soul before it reaches your eyes .

june cohen : so thank you . thank you , thomas . you 're a delight .

it 's easy to forget that last night , one billion people went to sleep without access to electricity .

so — shocked ?

this image is the kryptonite for extremists .

we all started as novices .

and this was 2007 .

what is complex ?

my answer is that we have the largest number of neurons in the cerebral cortex , and i think that 's the simplest explanation for our remarkable cognitive abilities .

but remember this example .

but kids do n't mind .

the list of candidate shapes has soared to about 10 to the 500 .

and this drive to not only teach but also to entertain resulted in some of the strangest anatomical illustrations .

they 're all doing it for the purpose of saving lives .

this is not a question of individual concern , this is a matter of family honor , and in particular , men 's honor .

audience member 2 : spade .

you see , sight is just one way we shape our reality .

see what you think .

i lived to work .

here 's how you grew .

and here comes the bad news : our brain , not the largest one around .

200 people in this beautiful victorian mansion .

how do you hold the sovereigns of cyberspace accountable to the public interest when most ceo 's argue that their main obligation is to maximize shareholder profit ?

we need to move mexican society from denial and apathy to the next level of citizen response , which is , effectively , recognition .

time-warping technology challenges our deepest core , because we are able to archive the past and some of it becomes hard to forget , even as the current moment is increasingly unmemorable .

from the results of that mission , it became immediately clear that comets were ideal bodies to study to understand our solar system .

at 12,000 feet , where the air is thin , i once built two hole in the wall computers , and the children flocked there .

but we do n't feel that they 're helping us .

the hum is the electricity that comes from being excited by life .

the number of beavers started to increase , because beavers like to eat the trees .

`` i was determined not to be excluded from the performance , so i turned to my mother and loud enough for everyone to hear said , `` '' mom , i do n't need a tutu . ''

and really when you think [ you ] can not do it , she will push you , and i can do it .

but what cyrus represented remained absolutely central .

and this is not something wrong with me personally .

but not only houses , also small debris from one city , from san diego , to tijuana .

now , think of your relationships , of the people who shape your days .

they are a right , just as sidewalks are , unless we believe that only those with access to a motor vehicle have a right to safe mobility , without the risk of getting killed .

he was talking about this amazing , three-year-old australopithecine child , selam .

i think that 's , you know , part of how it 'll work .

it 's the place where you become yourself .

and as a final parting thought , on behalf of future archeologists , i would like to ask you to please think twice before you go home and brush your teeth .

but that 's just an example .

or do you really want to hurt me personally ?

i 'm not so sure we should be thinking of young people as digital natives .

and so you can hear oral histories — so people who were actually working the so-called bucket brigades as you 're seeing literally the thousands of experiences from that moment .

like every other human being , i avoided trouble .

when ?

access to credit must be a human right .

the customer , you see , is king .

so there 's no more signal for us to tell us to stop .

today , farmers can take those samples themselves .

`` and now you are helping me to regain some confidence in the future . '' '' and another counselor said to me after the training , `` '' you know , i never knew why i survived the killings in my village , but now i know , because i am part of a nucleus of a new peaceful society in afghanistan . '' '' so i believe this kept me running . ''

because what we actually count truly counts .

on behalf of the bees , thank you .

and then it no longer matters what you look like , where you come from , or what you do for a living .

and at that point , the universe mysteriously starts accelerating its expansion and cuts off the formation of larger-scale structure .

men lie eight times more about themselves than they do other people .

i could make david mamet psychoanalyze my attack on dialogue , stanislavski be as if he were bruce lee kicking your roster of talentless students up and down crenshaw .

a few others and i today make these forests professionally — anywhere and everywhere .

we tend to do any technology that we think is sufficiently important ; we 'll typically do it twice . once , we want to do it first .

the way to do this is to do it on a company basis , to take leadership forward , and to do it for as many important sectors which have a cost , and to disclose these answers .

ca : so how do we deal with that ?

i wrote those same kinds of letters that my mother had written me for strangers , and tucked them all throughout the city , dozens and dozens of them . i left them everywhere , in cafes and in libraries , at the u.n. , everywhere .

and they must also have this idea , i suppose , that what scientists do is collect data and collect facts and stick them in these big books .

in the workplace , real equality means valuing family just as much as work , and understanding that the two reinforce each other .

it 's really lovely .

so if you take a sphere and look at the volume of the sphere , it 's actually four-thirds of some particular cylinder .

one prefers to sit on one side ; the other , on the other side of the two strands of the vertical lines going down , which you ca n't see .

this is the first crematorium in the u.k. , which was built in woking in the 1870s .

the whole surface of it is covered with 60 million diodes , red , blue , and green , that allow you to have a high-resolution picture , visible in daylight .

but for the most part , france considered the matter closed .

we need better accounting .

so how do we prevent them ?

former un secretary kofi annan has spoken candidly about his personal failure leading to the rwandan genocide .

but to be clear , i 'm not saying that people should n't change their bodies if that 's what they want to do .

`` i told tim , `` '' if you could just see the microbes , it 's kind of like being in costa rica . kind of . '' '' and i also like to think of offices as being a temperate grassland . ''

well let me give you an example .

and this is what i think is the magic of fluorescence .

jordan then published his results online , including all the things he had tried and did n't work , so others could study and reproduce it .

they got married . had a baby .

`` i went to graduate school and i got an mfa , and at my first solo show , my brother asked me , `` what do all these red dots mean next to the paintings ? '' ''

but here — here 's the intriguing part .

the last element is partnership .

look at china 's one-child policy .

`` so when he gives me his final paper , in which he argues that the categorical imperative is perhaps too uncompromising to deal with the conflict that affects our everyday and challenges me to tell him whether therefore we are condemned to moral failure , i say , `` '' i do n't know . ''

was woodstock awesome ? yes , it was awesome .

depression is so exhausting .

`` so what we must do for this paradigm shift is actually foster a new generation of `` '' digital humanists '' '' that are going to be ready for this shift . ''

but it 's difficult , and we need to be conscious .

so i decided to engage this particular problem .

otherwise , that little girl is n't going to look like that little girl anymore , and surely that 's as tragic as having the photo damaged .

`` and he looked at the two of us and said , `` '' you girls ca n't call the cops . ''

should we edit a human embryo ?

because out of the urban devastation in port-au-prince came a torrent of sms texts — people crying for help , beseeching us for assistance , sharing data , offering support , looking for their loved ones .

we have been talking for a long time , and now here we are again .

i know a little girl . she 's the daughter of a friend of mine .

farmers are facing challenges of drought from asia to africa , from australia to oklahoma , while heat waves linked with climate change have killed tens of thousands of people in western europe in 2003 , and again in russia in 2010 .

so avaz is essentially converting pictures , it 's a translator , it converts pictures into speech .

and this is jack geiger , who 's one of the heroes of the u.s. public health community .

the women in the zone , now in their 70s and 80s , are the last survivors of a group who defied authorities and , it would seem , common sense , and returned to their ancestral homes inside the zone .

he said there 's just not in demand .

it turns out , they make this wonderful material , which is called resilin .

simple , individual rules .

i went on to cover many , many , many wars after that , so many that i lost count , but there was nothing like sarajevo .

and this is what i 'll tell you about .

`` ( laughter ) and they call heartache `` '' one-itis . '' '' in english , `` '' itis '' '' is a suffix that signifies infection . ''

why ?

we recognize them in relation to corporations .

and he said i had a matching pair like that on my head , but i could n't see them because of my hair .

so i want to give you a quick story of how it got started .

it was my version of my grandfather 's hours of the day alone in his library .

`` and the person walks up to me , and says , `` '' hi , my name is so-and-so . ''

so i kind of got lost .

i 'm a textile artist most widely known for starting the yarn bombing movement .

now , adults get tricked this way as well , all the time .

it can cut it from weeks to days .

but a major threshold is passed when you mature enough to acknowledge what drives you and to take the wheel and steer it .

this is the work i do .

there were lines of bodies laid in the street .

and we left karachi one morning before dawn .

these kinds of losses are out of our control .

em : well actually , i 'm confident that solar will beat everything , hands down , including natural gas .

`` jg : or here 's a video that i made as part of my show `` '' crash course , '' '' talking about world war i : ( video ) the immediate cause was of course the assassination in sarajevo of the austrian archduke franz ferdinand , on june 28 , 1914 , by a bosnian-serb nationalist named gavrilo princip . ''

but we ca n't confuse figuring out the science and things not working with we should n't therefore do anything .

this is the only device he needs in this treatment .

and there are zero cures for these diseases .

every pebble that you see on the ground there is a piece of dinosaur bone .

`` and when i look at the second , i ask , what kind of person was he ? what kind of man is this ? '' '' well , he was complicated . ''

we 've had economic analysis pointing out that , not only can we afford it , it 's cheaper to act early .

and what better way to do this than by interpreting the signals naturally produced by our brain , our center for control and experience .

but my question was , why were n't there more places with greenery and places to sit in the middle of the city where you did n't feel alone , or like a trespasser ?

you know , one minute holmes is on the other side from lestrade .

it 's kind of what it sounds like .

so this animal has actually had the whole world turned under its feet . it 's turned by 90 degrees .

`` voice 9 : we were actually in a meeting when someone barged in and said , `` oh my god , a plane has just crashed into the world trade center . '' ''

and that 's just on air .

they represent a retreat back towards nationalism and borders in ways that many of us would reject .

they could present that certificate to a prospective employer and get a better job , and we know many students who did .

let 's jump to retail for a second .

the crazy thing about this dance is that the cakewalk was performed for the masters , who never suspected they were being made fun of .

their uses are quite concentrated .

so today , companies are working with governments to put land titles on a blockchain .

from my family looking in from outside , what they 're trying to figure out is a different kind of existential question , which is , how far is it going to be possible to bridge from the comatose potential mind that they 're looking at to an actual mind , which i define simply as the functioning of the brain that is remaining inside my head .

that someday is already here if you 're a mouse .

it 's the first radical change in automobile technology in 100 years .

i was standing , leaning against mahatma gandhi 's statue .

in siblinghood , that 's where we start assembling many of those first layers that cover our soul .

( applause ) we call ourselves the sleepy man banjo boys .

i do n't know what the answer is to that .

so you have an image , a retina , and a brain .

we still had 100 miles to go downhill on very slippery rock-hard blue ice .

we do our best to ignore the fact that we do n't always have it , and that not everything can be explained .

a few years ago i went to china for a few months , and i could n't speak chinese , and this frustrated me , so i wrote about this and had it translated into chinese , and then i learned this by heart , like music , i guess .

the biggest penis-to-body-size ratio in the animal kingdom actually belongs to the meager beach barnacle , and this video is actually showing you what the human penis would look like if it were the same size as that of a barnacle .

so making the walls is equivalent to taking cars right off the road .

( laughter ) but it 's much more connected to the web . ( laughter )

some companies succeed . others fail .

thank you very , very much .

`` you guys know what this is — you call this `` '' data visualization . '' '' when you do it right , it 's illuminating . ''

it 's off the grid entirely .

and if you simply show people these pictures , they 'll say these are fairly attractive people .

you can put shoes on your feet ; you can play golf with golf clubs ; and chewed up bubble gum does n't do anything at all for you .

the jingling of my tags drove me mad .

and with drug-dealing comes conflict , so we often went to sleep to the sound of gunshots .

if today 's average teacher could become as good as those teachers , our students would be blowing away the rest of the world .

but it turns out the glial cells have a vital role in the modulation , amplification and , in the case of pain , the distortion of sensory experiences .

( laughter ) or we 'll be here all day with my childhood stories .

( applause )

thank you .

these three intertwined processes have completely annihilated all the traditional bearings of western societies , with radical consequences for the individual .

it took off . it was pretty cool .

but i bet it was presented in a way that it did n't exactly stick in your mind .

we came very close to failure , but we managed to get through that point in 2008 .

what i love about this work is that it challenges our assumptions of what kind of visual vocabulary belongs in the world of art , versus science .

so i tend to do those things .

kids we are losing to forced marriages , to honor-based violence and abuse .

somebody has to be a witness to what has happened to you .

over the years , many people and news reports have blamed the personnel in the institutions for the harm caused to the children , but often , one member of staff is caring for 10 , 20 , and even 40 children .

once we fix it , we just might solve this problem .

it also means tomorrow , after a day and a night .

thank you very much .

we 're used to thinking of linear cause and linear effect — one cause , one effect .

i do so many things on this little device .

almost everything here was brought from somewhere else — the sort of rocks , the trees , the waterfalls .

( laughter ) i have never been more terrified — until now .

they called them improvements , and they were the beginning of a long , slow unraveling .

but i have to say that there 's older technologies that i tend to like .

and eventually , i ended up at a school where there was a mixture .

and then our relationship stopped .

now it was not about riverside school .

and that has always been a central part of the work .

shhhhhhhhhhh . ( pitch getting higher and lower ) you do not know the power of the dark side .

if you look at the y-axis of this graph , you 'll see that , in the mechanically ventilated air , you have a higher probability of encountering a potential pathogen , or germ , than if you 're outdoors .

as long as we live a life of curiosity and passion , there is a bit of leonardo in all of us . thank you . ( applause ) ( applause )

did you sup on others ' squalor ?

so inside our country , we are a net carbon sink .

all three of the founders of netscape had it .

okay . okay .

he was 36. i was seven at the time .

it 's simply not going to happen unless the female is on board with the action .

since the age of five , i started to learn how to draw every single stroke for each character in the correct sequence .

at age 17 , he started asking the kinds of questions that you 'd expect of someone with a beginner 's mind .

that 's our job as cosmologists .

there are lots of different proteins that are known to affect aging .

`` she said , `` '' of course , you know , it was very painful for you . ''

what was special was their approach .

if we do n't give that gift to each and every one of our kids , if we do n't invest at the earliest age , we 're going to be running into difficulties .

and in many ways , we all rely on them for coming up with new , great innovations to help us solve all these challenges ahead of us .

mbi found 83 percent .

shabbir and nawroz were never seen again .

the world economic forum says that there 's between a 10x and a 20x shortage of physicians in the developing world , and it would take about 300 years to train enough people to fix that problem .

and that 's why it 's been a pleasure speaking to you .

we do n't decide where nature places new particles .

but to really see the details of the bee , and really appreciate what it is , you have to look a little bit closer .

as a young magician , i was obsessed with houdini and his underwater challenges .

it 's a lot to ask , but it 's not too much .

and i find this very much disturbing when we 're talking about what 's going on right and wrong with democracy these days .

`` and restructured the whole thing , including a staircase that was very important in order to precisely place `` '' the battle of anghiari '' '' on a specific area of one of the two walls . ''

hopefully you can appreciate the device there curving through the patient 's body and removing the patient 's bone marrow , instead of with 200 punctures , with just a single puncture under local anesthesia .

one : curved tips can maximize the springiness when you draw and shoot the arrow .

and it turns out it really is a problem .

that is another 25 million barrels a day .

so , i form friendships and co-worker and sibling and relative relationships with other people who in turn have similar relationships with other people .

it has social and psychological aims — family , friendship , commitments , society , participating in the life of that society .

and , i mean , i stole arthur marshall 's grandfather and made him my own .

i wanted them to feel that this art belongs to them .

it 's smart enough to stop .

`` now why are you just wandering around saying this obvious thing ? '' '' so i say , okay , fine . ''

there 's been four billion years of organic , biological life .

there was a love for the city that i loved , that i grew up in , that i was educated in — a city that pulled my heart back into the system .

so allow me to tell you about it .

for me , while i 'm such a serious athlete on the track , i want to be feminine off the track , and i think it 's so important not to be limited in any capacity , whether it 's , you know , your mobility or even fashion .

they pay a middle-man thousands of dollars to be there .

he broke the good/bad news in my face .

( laughter ) ss : and my personal favorite is frankenstein 's monster .

these changes were the foundations for urban sprawl .

ultimately , coke 's success depends on one crucial fact and that is that people want a coca-cola .

melissa walker : over the past five years , we 've had over 1,000 masks made .

it was just a custom and traditions that are enshrined in rigid religious fatwas and imposed on women .

`` and somebody said to him , `` '' well what 's the point of these , heinrich ? ''

this is a reverse view of things from the kind of traditional romantic view .

no nuance , no complexity , no humanity .

it could be , let 's say for example , a u.s. power plant , or a chemical plant in germany .

for a start , we can think about all the times when we do lose ourselves .

`` it ruined my life — ( laughter ) `` '' the inconvenient truth '' '' and mr . gore . ''

( laughter ) during the next year , i would spend five months in a psychiatric hospital .

if they equal your feelings , you do n't even know you have a model .

it 's about who we are , and i ca n't help but be curious .

now , when you 're an investigative reporter and you make an amazing discovery , such as your prime minster can be linked to a secret offshore company , that that company has a financial interest in icelandic banks — the very issue he 's been elected on — well , your instinct is to scream out very loud .

`` [ `` '' i do n't need 2 write it down . '' '' ] ( applause ) ''

the older face is miserable .

i think it 's difficult because there are so many traps that keep us where we are .

but that is great .

like , that 's all you have to do . ( laughter ) because my favorite thing about her , other than , like , everything , is that she is very — has always been unapologetically present on stage , and unapologetic about her flaws and about reconciling all of her contradictory feelings and she makes you listen to them and think about them , and yeah , so please be stevie nicks .

it 's unpleasant . it 's not right .

it 's really counterintuitive .

this is the market leader in malware distribution , the black hole exploit pack , responsible for nearly one third of malware distribution in the last couple of quarters .

`` will they be gainfully employed ? '' '' ( laughter ) `` or are they going to be wreaking havoc in some waterway ? '' ''

i mean , after all , chernobyl 's soil , water and air , are among the most highly contaminated on earth , and the reactor sits at the the center of a tightly regulated exclusion zone , or dead zone , and it 's a nuclear police state , complete with border guards .

again , we start by designing the human into the process .

physical objects are just the icons in that desktop .

now , when you are about to say or do something , we can think , do i want this to be part of my legacy , part of my personal record ?

here 's an example .

okay , so everything around it is whole and intact .

my great-aunt was a dominican nun .

and some people , at least , are starting to ask questions about the role of islam in public and private life .

about whether all the children there should learn to code .

it 's just not the ones that we 're being presented with online .

in the context of effective learning , one of the things people talk about is hands-on learning .

second , our sociogenic or second nature , which has to do with the cultural and social aspects of our lives .

i would bet there are n't 10 percent of you in the room that know how many aircraft carriers there are in the world .

but one day , i went to the hospital — my mother was sick — and i saw the hospital , how they [ were ] treating the doctors , how they [ are ] committed to help the sick people .

and i had to travel 2,000 miles across the country to get treatment , but within days of them prescribing a new medication , my life turned into an episode of the walking dead .

and this one is really good . this one , i signed a renting contract to the new office on friday and i laughed my head off .

what should i actually try to replicate ?

the educated blamed the less well-educated .

but all the while that we 've been working on this engagement for cleveland , we 've also been working in the background on really our largest engagement to date , and that 's the 9/11 memorial and museum .

fg : i did a teapot and nobody bought it .

so there has been a lot of change .

how long shall they kill our prophets while we stand aside and look ?

before making my own mother 's day card , i thought i would take a look at the scratch website .

( laughing ) so the tedtalk laid out in very simple terms , a charter city is a place where you start with uninhabited land , a charter that specifies the rules that will apply there and then a chance for people to opt in , to go live under those rules or not .

movements are about moments , and we seized this moment .

this would be , again , a very low-cost solution if implemented from the start , low cost , pleasant transit with natural sunlight .

there was a marvelous animal , a marsupial wolf called the thylacine in tasmania , south of australia , called the tasmanian tiger .

i want to give you a demo of a prototype that we 're working on that we 'll launch later this fall .

come with me .

and as a result , birth control has almost completely and totally disappeared from the global health agenda .

the universe is wonderful , but we have a practical reality , which is we live in an unknown cosmos , and we 're ignorant about it .

but even better , we can do swimming .

( applause ) writing is not actually as easy as that for me .

that was in the beginning of the last century .

we see that in the sanders/trump campaigns in my own country .

i wish this were different . we really need it now .

and we look at these exponential technologies from medicine , biotech , artificial intelligence , robotics , nanotechnology , space , and address how can we cross-train and leverage these to impact major unmet goals .

and we keep going through it until we 're certain that this is our bridge .

underlying was a fear that their children might disapprove and would reject the non-genetic parent .

in that case , as i found so often during my year of reading the world , my not knowing and being open about my limitations had become a big opportunity .

and those utilities were rewarded , as they still are in 34 states , for selling you more electricity .

now , that presents some logistical challenges but we have ways to do it .

one reason is that the most popular contraceptives are rarely available .

i used to be afraid of ghosts .

and there are different ways .

`` but since publishing `` '' crazy love , '' '' i have heard hundreds of stories from men and women who also got out , who learned an invaluable life lesson from what happened , and who rebuilt lives — joyous , happy lives — as employees , wives and mothers , lives completely free of violence , like me . ''

the fact is that we simply do n't know when the warming that we create will be utterly overwhelmed by feedback loops .

and if you think about the number of people who claim in surveys to regularly look for porn on the web , it 's very few .

you know the kind of thing a commencement address is , and graduation ceremonies , those lyrical claims that education , the process of education — particularly higher education — will make us into nobler and better human beings .

the past wo n't let us go .

and so i repurposed this code to train a system on one person in our culture who would never need to be surveilled in that manner , which is britney spears .

this is already impacting us .

and they calculated for the top 3,000 corporations , what are the externalities ?

for one thing they must be involved in things like imitation and emulation .

the reason was because the logistics are so incredibly difficult , it seemed to be more efficient to do that .

angela merkel , the chancellor of germany .

he merely connected one sentence after another .

so , is this magic transferable to humans ?

it 's a story about us , people , being persuaded to spend money we do n't have on things we do n't need to create impressions that wo n't last on people we do n't care about .

spaces tend to include noise and acoustics .

ca : actually , let me just ask a question .

we are less connected to it . we let other people worry about it .

( laughter ) ( applause ) so this turned into a contest .

why does it cost so much energy , then ?

by putting on these goggles that track wherever you look , you get this whole-body sensation , like you 're actually , like , there .

we do n't know how they do that yet .

so poor countries are by and large low trust countries .

no other animal cooks its food . only humans do .

i 've learned about the poetry and the wisdom and the grace that can be found in the words of people all around us when we simply take the time to listen , like this interview between a betting clerk in brooklyn named danny perasa who brought his wife annie to storycorps to talk about his love for her .

this is the machine below geneva .

and i have a passion for images and for words .

and what was even more striking to me , and what i really got hung up on , was that the world inside the screen seemed to have no physical reality of its own .

but you can write it .

peter molyneux : what are you going to do , dimitri ?

if you reach with your finger , where would it be ?

if you go over the education spending and the health care spending — particularly these long-term trends — you do n't have that type of involvement on a number that 's more important in terms of equity , in terms of learning .

i realize how your life can change from one second to the other after a major stroke or after a car accident .

we have to utilize this day of ceasefire and nonviolence and go for a global truce , go for the largest recorded cessation of hostilities , both domestically and internationally , ever recorded .

i hope this story will inspire you and that you 'll spread the word .

really ? two hundred thousand years of human evolution , and it still ca n't tell the difference between a saber tooth tiger and 20 folksingers on a tuesday night open mic ?

so some solutions to heat can provide for win-win-wins .

they would get dentures , and if you got dentures , you were n't going to be able to eat corn-on-the-cob , you were n't going to be able to eat apples , you were n't going to be able to eat steak .

the campers who were too lazy to take out what they had brought in , who did they think would clean up after them ?

a three-digit score , your traditional credit history , that only 30 percent of us actually know what it is , will no longer be the determining factor in how much things cost , what we can access , and , in many instances , limit what we can do in the world .

so far the score is germs : 1 , people : 0 .

dr. razem : it 's time to go , miklos .

on the other hand , because it 's a rectangle , the area is equal to its height times its base , and the height is clearly eight , and the base is five plus eight , which is the next fibonacci number , 13. right ?

and we must rebuild these forests .

and we are not aware of it .

why have n't we allowed innovation to happen ?

so how could it be that the bats maintain this complex , stable social structure with such limited cognitive abilities ?

it 's not just fundamental in business , it 's fundamental in life .

the respect is stepping forward , not stepping backward , and i really think that by engaging your body in the moment , in the ceremony , in the places , people welcome you and understand your energy .

and really , we can be our own ambassadors .

making superintelligent a.i . that is safe involves some additional challenge on top of that .

when a supervisor comes to visit us , these are exactly the things that he checks .

but they are n't a commercial enterprise .

anybody who has an internet connection and the will to learn can access these great courses from excellent universities and get a credential at the end of it .

`` i have to report it . '' '' and he said , `` '' go home , because if you miss his first tooth , if you miss his first step , you 'll never forgive yourself . ''

well , one of the problems , of course , turns out to be testing .

let 's look to the plays of shakespeare , the dialogues of plato , the novels of jane austen .

this is the opera house that wagner built for himself .

if i could n't do that , then what could i do ?

it will be completely free , and it will work in any browser .

how many of us here , as tedsters in the audience , spend more of our time in the bottom half of this equation , in the denominator ?

this is the world we live in .

`` he laid down the mathematical foundations for computer science , and said , `` it does n't matter how you make a computer . '' ''

and then i understood that asking my father so many questions was stirring up a whole past he probably did n't feel like talking about because it was painful .

`` it was a scatter chart showing performance on `` '' jeopardy , '' '' tens of thousands of dots representing `` '' jeopardy '' '' champions up at the top with their performance plotted on number of — i was going to say questions answered , but answers questioned , i guess , clues responded to — versus the accuracy of those answers . ''

but we still did it .

`` and if you go to 1989 — something that basically you do n't expect that anybody 's going to criticize — but many are going to tell you , `` '' listen , it was the end of the cold war that tore the social contract between the elites and the people in western europe . '' '' when the soviet union was still there , the rich and the powerful , they needed the people , because they feared them . ''

and i did n't , so that makes me one of the lucky ones ,

so it is really unlikely that we will be around to see the higgs field collapse .

and what i want to do in this talk is to split them apart — figuring out when they diverge and how they converge .

it 's about empowering people to make meaningful connections , connections that are enabling us to rediscover a humanness that we 've lost somewhere along the way , by engaging in marketplaces like airbnb , like kickstarter , like etsy , that are built on personal relationships versus empty transactions .

and young women climax at the same rate as men .

here 's the problem : if i ca n't come clean and talk about my mistakes , if i ca n't find the still-small voice that tells me what really happened , how can i share it with my colleagues ?

well what is the implication of that ?

unlike the theme building , this is not alien technology .

because there are a lot of people who might live up there and if they 're waiting forever a long queue could form because the cars are n't slowing down on the main road .

`` and he said , `` '' hey , i was in the men 's room . ''

probably easier — if you got a rottie — much easier to train .

`` and the fax said , there should be songs , there should be an `` '' i want '' '' song , there should be a happy village song , there should be a love story and there should be a villain . ''

and the answer is that architecture works on the principle of a pendulum .

toes have become an origami meme , because everyone 's doing it .

none of the leaders showed up .

`` ( music : george frideric handel , `` '' allegro . '' '' performed by daria van den bercken . ) ( video ) daria van den bercken : i live there on the third floor . ''

everything that happens to you in a given home over all of those years appears to leave no permanent stamp on your personality or intellect .

unfortunately , this is not at all what we see in response to a cyber attack .

imagine that there 's a circle in front of you , yeah ?

and to tell you a bit about the things that i make , the easiest place to start the story is with a hat .

so my first attempt at this was at the mit media lab with professor hiroshi ishii , and we built this array of 512 different electromagnets , and together they were able to move objects around on top of their surface .

i mean , after all , we 're not trees , and most of us are not lobsters .

we 've known about ebola since 1976 .

my early canvases ended up being things that you would n't expect to be used as canvas , like fried food .

labor and delivery left me feeling absolutely broken .

the result is pretty staggering .

now let me turn to a second question , a fairly different question , but i 'd say equally important .

they were hallucinations , which vanished the moment he touched them .

in argentina , there are 50,000 .

and so six years ago , i changed the direction of my career .

i 'm lying in the tent , getting ready to go .

i call a name that could be his .

it urbanized .

what i was witnessing was not only news , but also history .

the year is 1960 .

so , as usual , what we see just beyond the horizon is full of promise and peril .

there may be roundups , raids , deportations , camps , secessions .

i 'll try to use an approach that 's slightly materialistic , but it also attempts to convey that , in nature , there is extraordinary philosophy and harmony .

i just got strapped on outside the helicopter , and i had to be perfectly vertical so i could grab it .

this beetle , unlike this chip bag here , this beetle uses one material , chitin .

but why does the earth go around the sun ?

i did get depressed .

`` we have so much natural gas , a day will not come where you say , `` '' well let 's do n't use that anymore . '' '' you 'll keep using it . it is the cleanest of all . ''

i learned this from spider-man .

they consulted with experts in conflict resolution .

when resources are shared , they 're not divided ; they 're multiplied .

for example , in land use , which areas do you want to protect , through adding a seawall , for example , alter , by raising buildings , or retreat from , to allow the migration of important natural systems , such as wetlands or beaches ?

sensing and responding : feedback is a huge thing .

we maintained their value , their quality .

hum ? are you clear ?

but this system would have an even more important benefit for our country .

the people 's supermarket .

the real difference between humans and all other animals is not on the individual level ; it 's on the collective level .

where is that place for you where people who are affected by a unique problem can meet a unique solution ?

notice that , at full extension , these quads are vertical .

and then you notice something quite a little bit odd about the eyes and the mouth .

now , in 1950 came the great acceleration .

do you see where i 'm going with this ?

i mean this is the iphone 4 .

the other question everybody asks is , why does n't she just leave ?

seen from those stairs , all politicians today seem the same , and politics has come to resemble a sport that inspires more aggressiveness and pessimism than social cohesion and the desire for civic protaganism .

mountain roads , day and night , and even crooked lombard street in san francisco .

`` so i 'm going to talk a little bit about what business can do and what a business like ikea can do , and we have a sustainability strategy called `` '' people and planet positive '' '' to help guide our business to have a positive impact on the world . ''

also , lots of things which are less visible .

and i love to dig a hole .

`` `` '' what do you mean , 'fat dancers ? ' like , size 10 , size 12 kind of fat ? ''

do you want milo to squash it ?

we do n't know that .

imagine only 40 miles per gallon cars would be on the road .

it was invented by farmers in iraq and syria in particular .

but like me , they are human beings .

the microbes in your gut can influence your weight and your moods .

but here 's the part that you might not hear very much about .

why does she receive more bites than i do ?

for example , when i 'm psychotic i often have the delusion that i 've killed hundreds of thousands of people with my thoughts .

the trucks and planes can realistically use hydrogen or advanced biofuels .

so the stories , they have a lot of possibilities .

okay , so what is the daf-2 receptor telling the inside of the cell ?

they even tried to kidnap me at one point .

what would you do today ?

because the data just does n't lie .

and i say it so often . i say it to remind you that as dumpy as i am , it 's coming from me .

and we 've got to do better . the evaluation , we have to start with kids earlier , we have to make sure that we provide the support to young people .

because she 's blameless ; everybody knows it .

how many lives could we have saved , decades ago , if we had asked the right questions ?

so this small missing chunk here is puzzling .

`` `` '' two boys hit me today in school . ''

`` let 's do something about it . '' '' recently — this is a sensitive figure — 35 public lynchings have been recorded so far in 2010 in mexico . ''

if it 's yellow , it 's 40 to 60 percent .

we say never again , and yet it happens again and again and again .

i just thought i was going crazy , and then i thought , well , now i 'm not going crazy anymore .

so i asked her to tell me the story of what had happened , asked her to tell me how it made her feel .

it 's an investment . it requires patience .

`` this is a picture of tim , who , right when i snapped this picture , reminded me , he said , `` '' jessica , the last lab group i worked in i was doing fieldwork in the costa rican rainforest , and things have changed dramatically for me . '' '' so i 'm going to show you now first what we found in the offices , and we 're going to look at the data through a visualization tool that i 've been working on in partnership with autodesk . ''

so here we have a couple of documents which our cybercriminals had uploaded to a cloud service , kind of like dropbox or skydrive , like many of you might use .

this is a fascinating research from who that shows the effect of generic drugs on anti-retroviral drug compounds and cocktails .

these are going to be game changing .

when i went on school field trips , family vacations , or simply on my way home from extracurricular classes , i wandered around wooded areas and gathered tree branches with the tools that i sneaked inside my school bag .

so to investigate immorality , let me bring you back now to 1980 .

my mom was a single mom who worked at the phone company during the day and sold tupperware at night so that i could have every opportunity possible .

the european robin migrates from scandinavia down to the mediterranean , every autumn , and like a lot of other marine animals and even insects , they navigate by sensing the earth 's magnetic field .

but it 's also clear that prosperity goes beyond this .

it 's called batting average .

the audience and the performer make the piece together .

when he has his great celebrations in persepolis , he summons the cylinder and the cylinder is lent by the british museum , goes to tehran , and is part of those great celebrations of the pahlavi dynasty .

so now we 've gone back in time .

for many years now , they do n't have the sufficient cold weather to actually control the population of this beetle .

our average response time today went down to less than three minutes in israel .

the uprising still hurts .

and different sorts of things spread across different sorts of ties .

so the parasite is a very big scientific challenge to tackle , but so is the mosquito that carries the parasite .

we have everything we need .

i 've been a journalist now since i was about 17 , and it 's an interesting industry to be in at the moment , because as you all know , there 's a huge amount of upheaval going on in media , and most of you probably know this from the business angle , which is that the business model is pretty screwed , and as my grandfather would say , the profits have all been gobbled up by google .

in half a century of trying to help prevent wars , there 's one question that never leaves me : how do we deal with extreme violence without using force in return ?

and these are the inflection points that tell you what the next chapter in that technology 's life is going to be , and maybe how you can do something about it .

i find that extraordinary , not to be able to see light , not to be able to see darkness .

inside , it 's a smelly , gaping hole in the ground , but outside , it 's pearly white formica and it literally gleams in the sun .

a full third of those who braved tanks and tear gas to ask or to demand liberty and justice in egypt were women .

unless you are ill or very poor , you have choices .

i 've seen all of this . these are excuses .

and then one day , this appeared .

successions of new species emerged , evolved and became extinct .

and secondly , where did the leprosy bacteria come from ?

but this story 's not about eliminating it , it 's about minimizing it .

somi .

i 'm not a big natural gas producer .

thank you .

so now i present to you a challenge .

passion about the change we want to see in the world , and clarity that we are able to help chart the course .

now the really cool thing about foxo is that there are different forms of it .

all new technology comes with trade-offs .

the flows have increased .

i know you guys think of yourself as humans , and this is sort of how i think of you .

and as you can see , it 's the women who are carrying the children ; it 's the women who come into the hospitals ; it 's the women [ are ] building the houses .

second , no doubt more familiar to you , is the nature of modern american education : scripted , lock-step curricula .

so this is why you ca n't win a political argument .

we need digital safety systems where a human operator could not act quick enough .

each point here represents all the complex microbes in an entire microbial community .

now , after 15 years — 15 years after we read the first sequence — this october , we started to see some signals .

chris anderson : i just have a couple of questions for you .

usually , talking about science is like exercising in a dry place .

that 's something we ought to celebrate .

was i what had been done to me ?

this baby is a human body : it evolved .

now that takes some doing , especially when you work in a hospital that at the time saw but 14 people a night .

today the israel-loves-iran page is this number , 80,831 , and two million people last week went on the page and shared , liked , i do n't know , commented on one of the photos .

how can this be made better ?

for them , environmental contamination may not be the worst sort of devastation .

finally , very recently , we were able to track down a dig site where a local fossil hunter found several bones of spinosaurus .

so we did n't retire .

again , this is no mere hypothetical .

aj : god does good work .

i can digitize all these .

now — ( laughter ) — i love that word , superrabbit .

ted was a motorcycle racer , but in 1978 he had a car accident and lost his sight , which is devastating if you 're trying to ride motorbikes .

gorillas can be two to three times larger than we are , so their brains should also be larger than ours , but instead it 's the other way around .

let me show you how far you can do that .

it was a very basic reaction to find some reason we can do this .

if you take a branch from one of these corals and polish it up , this is about 100 microns across .

it 's thousands of processors , a terabyte of memory , trillions of bytes of memory .

it 's like they took the time to get to know you before you even met .

okay , see ? it 's done . it 's almost done . here we go .

as you can see , this is a device up in a tree .

we have the ability to do more powerful things with them .

and i wanted to make you see it in a positive way — no charity , no pity .

then we set out to create an open source , diy , do it yourself version that anyone can build and maintain at a fraction of the cost .

so those are hints suggesting that humans are susceptible to the effects of the hormones for aging .

sometimes it 's in relationships , where one person 's more invested than the other person .

barn swallows in hong kong , 2004 .

so that 's two points for insects .

so if we 're going to make progress on this issue , we have to be really clear about what our agenda is .

wind and solar ca n't help , because so far we do n't have a way to store that energy .

and this is the compelling but highly controversial picture of the wider cosmos that cutting-edge observation and theory have now led us to seriously consider .

these are the spikes showing that procrastination is global phenomenon .

we can not solve the world food problem by using biological agriculture .

i carried on .

so , a rodent brain with 86 billion neurons would weigh 36 kilos .

together , we can build the future today .

i was in congo in february , dancing and celebrating with women who 've survived the destruction of their selves in literally unthinkable ways — destroyed because other brutalized , psychopathic selves all over that beautiful land are fueling our selves ' addiction to ipods , pads , and bling , which further disconnect ourselves from ever feeling their pain , their suffering , their death .

you think black entertainers have it hard finding work in this business ? i 'm a suspicious mulatto , which means i 'm too black to be white and too white to be doing it right .

it has microbes on it that are commonly associated with our skin and with our mouth , our spit .

no labels .

it is more complex than this , but this will do .

em : that 's right . so it 's important that the rocket stages be able to come back , to be able to return to the launch site and be ready to launch again within a matter of hours .

but it was n't always that boys did n't want to .

anything that is worth pursuing is going to require us to suffer just a little bit , and that tiny bit of suffering that i did for my photography , it added a value to my work that was so much more meaningful to me than just trying to fill the pages of magazines .

mm on video : one , two , three . go !

and i am still baffled by my behavior .

( laughter ) so phil collins was playing drums on an early brian eno album .

his name was nikola , nikola tesla .

they 've created a habitat of happiness for dave .

when i met amanda for the first time , she could already stand up and walk a little bit even though she was paralyzed from the waist down , but she complained to me that her suit was uncomfortable .

`` she pointed out that the `` '' control men '' '' — as she called them — who carpet-bombed towns and fields with toxic insecticides like ddt , were only trying to kill the little stuff , the insects , not the birds . ''

how was that possible ?

this is a song that was recorded there .

it 's called rue des prairies — prairie street .

and i 've collaborated with so many incredible , inspirational musicians around the world .

lc : hopefully within the next two years .

and for that we turn to a great philosopher who was a very smart man despite being a yankee fan .

the supreme court ruled last month that a policeman has to get a warrant if he wants to do prolonged tracking , but the law is n't clear about civilians doing this to one another , so it 's not just big brother we have to worry about , but big neighbor . ( laughter ) there is one alternative that carol could have taken , very effective . it 's called the wave bubble .

and i built an app out of it , a game out of it , in which children can play with words and with a reinforcement , a sound reinforcement of visual structures , they 're able to learn language .

it means that parents have the ability to affect the future , not just accept it as it is .

( applause ) in my community , that was the first time a community , they had to call the bylaws , the first bylaw that protected girls in our community .

in fact , it 's comparable to anything we eat as meat at the moment .

so when does this transition begin ?

in every field of human development , humanity has already invented effective tools to end poverty .

having worked with lots of young children , i expected the institution to be a riot of noise , but it was as silent as a convent .

and i train by trying to stay in love .

zipcar buys cars and parks them throughout dense metropolitan areas for people to use , by the hour and by the day , instead of owning their own cars .

he touches his daughter , she turns into gold .

so i do n't think i 've really earned the right to call myself an indian .

now , later that evening , the two self-confessed tech geeks starting talking about how cool it would be if some kind of ebay for errands existed .

and i find this incredible .

( music ) ( clunk ) ( clunk ) ( clunk ) ( clunk ) so what this bird does is fight his own image .

they create niches for other species .

and i 'm really optimistic that this is going to work .

and i 'm going to give you a set of tools today .

six .

and you know which drivers you need to alert to get out of the way .

but certain other aspects of social network structure are not so obvious .

these are survival skills .

and if we take that notion of a global innovation fund , we could use this time to invest not directly in government , though we would have government 's blessing , nor in international experts , but in the many existing entrepreneurs and civil society leaders who already are building wonderful innovations that are reaching people all across the country .

well , animals do and can provide extremely useful information .

`` lena dunham , who 's on here , her show on hbo that premiers next month , `` '' girls , '' '' she said she wanted to start it because she felt that every woman she knew was just a bundle of contradictions , and that feels accurate for all people , but you do n't see women represented like that as much . ''

environmental and health crises are global .

now , this led to a selection of landing sites .

going right back to the prophet muhammad , there is a rich tradition in islam of talking frankly about sex : not just its problems , but also its pleasures , and not just for men , but also for women .

and fortunately i decided in 2008 to return to ghana , after 28 years of absence .

`` [ `` '' cg destruction '' '' ] [ `` '' 'lord of the rings : the return of the king ' ( 2003 ) '' '' ] [ `` '' massive software - crowd generation '' '' ] [ `` '' academy award winner for visual effects '' '' ] [ `` '' 'ben hur : a tale of the christ ' ( 1925 ) '' '' ] [ `` '' miniatures and puppets bring the crowd to life '' '' ] [ `` '' 'gladiator ' ( 2000 ) '' '' ] [ `` '' cg coliseum and digital crowds '' '' ] [ `` '' academy award winner for visual effects '' '' ] [ `` '' 'harry potter and the deathly hallows part 2 ' ( 2011 ) '' '' ] [ `` '' academy award nominee for visual effects '' '' ] [ `` '' produced in conjunction with the academy 's science and technology council . '' '' ] ( applause ) [ `` '' 'it is today possible to realize the most impossible and improbable things . ' — georges méliès '' '' ] don levy : thank you . ''

maybe one of the most heartening findings from the psychology of pleasure is there 's more to looking good than your physical appearance .

another approach to getting people to have stronger passwords is to use a password meter .

what is , or should be , the intrinsic motivation ?

`` i 'm not sure this project 's going to pan out . '' '' because he was afraid i was walking into a trap . ''

so , next time you come across with a document you do n't understand , demand to understand , put aside your pride and ask until you get completely cleared .

and this discouraged my brother a lot .

i use quotes or poetry .

all of those things are part of that equation .

or , people are not people without other people .

as i will show to you , it is actually the mainstay of modern life .

how do we do that ?

( laughter ) it had arrived and so , too , perhaps has a new era for journalism .

from deep space , our universe looks like a human brain cell , and then here we are in the deep ocean , and we 're finding marine creatures and cells that can illuminate the human mind .

interesting where it came from .

and this is not to say that two people look basically the same in the same body habitat , either .

as i said , it has a thick , extensive atmosphere .

so she 's dealing with the immediate aftermath that night , next day she 's got plumbers coming in , day after that , professional cleaning crew dealing with the ruined carpet .

there are brittle stars growing on these corals .

let 's call him mike .

i work with children with autism .

not only that , but as i move the object around , it 's going to track it and overlay that content seamlessly .

no risk , you 'll pay less than you 're paying now .

does any other emotion teach us to look with such peculiar intensity ?

has the toilet been made , has the meal been served .

aids , incredibly , has just been named , in the past month , a chronic disease , meaning that a 20-year-old who becomes infected with hiv is expected not to live weeks , months , or a couple of years , as we said only a decade ago , but is thought to live decades , probably to die in his '60s or '70s from other causes altogether .

it was 9.8 feet long , weighed 8,800 pounds . you go down to your local rent-a-truck and for 50 bucks or so , you rent a truck that 's got the right capacity , and you take your bomb , you put it in the truck and you 're ready to go .

but that 's only half of the story .

`` after acts of violence , another artist came , painted blood , protesters being run over by the tank , demonstrators , and a message that read , `` '' starting tomorrow , i wear the new face , the face of every martyr . i exist . '' '' authority comes , paints the wall white , leaves the tank and adds a message : `` army and people , one hand . egypt for egyptians . '' ''

they do n't just give us books or words about this .

you 're not from kenya .

and they recapitulate that shape , even though that 's a circle of nine and that 's a circle of 36. it 's nuts .

it 's the randomness , the disorder , the chaoticness of some systems .

those are the two choices we have . i know which future i would rather be living in .

they 're places where we keep objects of great value to us , where we simply treasure them for them being themselves .

and so you get the idea that when you navigate over information this way — going narrower , broader , backing in , backing out — you 're not searching , you 're not browsing .

out of a list of 26 topics , salary is only number eight .

i am in charge of making this country 's food secure .

suppose you wanted to look at adding the squares of the first few fibonacci numbers .

and i 'm going to finish by looking at just a few of them .

when disaster hits , when turmoil hits , we share the consequences .

we go back regularly .

that 's where i realized the power of paper and glue .

the original thought i had : this must be ethanol .

mt : we anthropomorphize our machines .

so what 's happening is , we had the yuck side , but we actually had this real wow side .

suppose our technologies for finding connectomes actually work .

knee-jerk legislation , emergency provision legislation — which hits at the very basis of our society , as we all know — it 's a mistake .

we 're just there to get the gap between the ambulance call until they arrive .

now i 'm not suggesting that the next stage of the reputation economy is about adding up multiple ratings into some kind of empty score .

and nick starr , the director of the national theatre , saw that particular moment , he was standing next to me — he nearly wet himself .

i mentioned renewable energy .

and i think we make a fundamental mistake — we make an assumption , that we think that , if people need something , we do n't have to make them want that .

some of them are orb-weaving spiders and some of them are non-orb-weaving spiders .

whether or not that 's due to an individual 's genetic background or their experiences , we do n't know .

it 's a very simple genetically inherited trait and the males are not otherwise any different .

so for me , everything started many , many years ago when i met the first 3d printer .

now think what this means .

his serious figure drawings are often layered in elements of humor .

you know how we know that 9/11 was not orchestrated by the bush administration ?

the problem is that the men under his care are suffering from an excruciating and debilitating condition that archie does n't really understand .

gabby would — gg : fact-finding mission .

this book comes in at 1,414 pages , it weighs a hefty seven and a half pounds .

you 've just won a darwin award .

so that 's the kind of thing that we do when we 're predicting stuff about you on social media .

it was time for a new revolution , which they pledged to bring about , and what 's so amazing about these guys is , not only did they have these grandiose undergraduate dreams , but they actually carried them out , even beyond their wildest dreams .

we need to make the same approach with the internet .

but that feeling of puzzlement is structural to contemporary art .

i actually came across this fascinating study by the pew center this week that revealed that an active facebook user is three times as likely as a non-internet user to believe that most people are trustworthy .

at five years old , i had to take an hour-long bus ride to a faraway place to get a better education .

it may change this century .

and industry can accelerate too , doubling its energy productivity with a 21 percent internal rate of return .

it 's politically risky for the protagonists and for the interlocutors . on one occasion i was doing it , every time i did a point that they did n't like , they actually threw stones at me , and when i did a point they liked , they starting shooting in the air , equally not great . ( laughter ) whatever the point , it gets to the heart of the problem , you 're doing it , you 're talking to them .

one of our philosophies in the book is that no dish is really intrinsically any better than any other dish .

i think the biggest problem that we face is our own willingness to share our data .

but we 're still dependent on natural , raw materials .

and as you can see , it 's been knocked about a bit , which is not surprising because it was made two and a half thousand years ago and was dug up in 1879 .

there 's designers and builders of cities who are very interested .

craig told me he did n't think i was willing to be vulnerable .

so imagine we make a little cell .

they were paying in order to skip the queue , the long queue .

those are my kids , natalie and david .

actually probably 10 billion events can be extracted from this archive .

and it also seems staggering that journalism has been so slow to wake up to the possibilities that technology brings , rather than being frightened of it .

i give you congo , which was high , ghana — lower . and kenya — even lower .

my sister was different .

most of it now is wasted and the technologies for saving it keep improving faster than we 're installing them .

gave it more love and care than my own child .

and you have no idea how hard it is to talk to somebody or take care of somebody you ca n't talk to .

and why is that ? it 's because that travel patterns are much less stable than you might think .

oh yes , no gun was ever found .

and then justine 's employers got involved : [ iac on @ justinesacco tweet : this is an outrageous , offensive comment .

in the first 18 months that i lived in this neighborhood , i wrote down every time i saw any contact between police and people that were my neighbors .

the first job that he ever got in the safari business was fixing the safari trucks .

that 's five cents each , and times 3,000 cars per day , that 's $ 51,000 per year .

so we learn a lot from war , and i mention rwanda because it is one place , like south africa , where nearly 20 years on , there is healing .

please raise your hand — oh , that 's a lot .

so this idea of harnessing focused ultrasound to treat lesions in the brain is not new at all .

so , how do we make and understand metaphors ?

we knew how to build rockets .

but here i am today , with you , and that is a miracle .

now , during all this time , he was holding a small notebook that sometimes he would open and flip through the pages and look at something .

new zealand decriminalized sex work in 2003 .

later , i found out that what i had was short-term ptsd : post-traumatic stress disorder .

i 'm leaving you with a little more birdsong , which is very good for you .

i still consider that every group i join might be right , and i hope i never lose that hope .

globalization will enter a new era .

they 'd have to operate .

if i can ask an indiscreet question , how many of you have tattoos ?

and if the tv was on , we were watching a documentary .

they sent dogs trained to smell explosives to sweep the area i 'd been in .

let 's move now to a more painful subject .

but that 's what we 're looking for : trustworthiness before trust .

and thirdly , if you 're in bad sound , it 's fine to put your fingers in your ears or just move away from it .

we have the means by which we could create a truly global society .

how do you get adults to really enjoy wine ?

he 's got a purpose . but he comes home [ to ] kansas city , missouri , maybe he goes to college , maybe he 's got a job , but he does n't have that same sense of purpose .

it weighs about a ton or over a ton .

they 're focusing on very cheap , very easy-to-use tools .

here it is , which says that the bigger you are the more you have per capita , unlike biology — higher wages , more super-creative people per capita as you get bigger , more patents per capita , more crime per capita .

now , some of you might hear this and feel sad .

first , our factories will be relocated into our home markets .

`` coke 's global campaign slogan is `` '' open happiness . '' '' but they localize it . ''

( applause ) they have no idea what we 're going to do .

`` and all of a sudden , he looked at the back of the room , and he saw his daughter , and he called out his daughter 's name , michaela , and he said , `` '' michaela , come up here . '' '' and she 's nine years old , and she was kind of shy , and she got up there , and he said , `` '' sit down next to me . '' '' she sat right down next to him . ''

you 're going into the military and eventually to become an astronaut .

world without risk would not be worth living .

and it has close to 1,200 such plants for 300 occupants .

so for example , in french and spanish the word for table is , for some reason , marked as feminine .

that 's why today i want to highlight women of color in stem , who are inexorably , unapologetically living as the inseparable sum of identities .

but if we contrast now what happens in a hot environment , look at the temperature of the soil .

take rodents and primates , for instance : in larger rodent brains , the average size of the neuron increases , so the brain inflates very rapidly and gains size much faster than it gains neurons .

and one evening , i was sitting next to a very nice gentleman in kabul , and he asked what i thought would be good in afghanistan .

and i 'm sorry if i impose some clarity , some understanding on you .

it took almost 30 years for anyone in the world to crack this problem .

and the last thing we want to see is drug-resistant strains of hiv popping up all over the world , because it will make treatment more expensive and it could also restore the pre-arv carnage of hiv/aids .

they 're more likely to feel intrigued when they encounter something that contradicts their expectations .

the reason is because there 's a unique phenomenon that happens in the u.k .

so how do you catch a taker before it 's too late ?

i saw the gps-derived timing of the new york stock exchange being manipulated by hackers .

what do we learn from that ?

sweden achieved a low child mortality because we started early .

so one of the reasons , if we come back to why did i call it buzzcar ? i wanted to remind all of us about the power of the hive , and its incredible facility to create this platform that individuals want to participate and innovate on .

and that glue is hide glue .

what is the significance of this stationary cloud that always hovers over this patch of jungle ?

during our visit , mcgowan spoke most and at length about his niece lily , his wife jenny and how torturous it feels to never be able to hug them , to never be able to hold their hands .

recast survivors as wonderful , lovable people with full futures .

what makes a strong female character is a character who has weaknesses , who has flaws , who is maybe not immediately likable , but eventually relatable .

yet the people inside africa have more genetic variation .

see , the thing we 're doing right now is we 're forcing people to learn mathematics .

one of the best predictors is the sheer volume of compositions that they generate .

right ?

`` and when the doctor took a look at this yellow kid with black teeth , he looked straight at my mom and said , `` he 's not going to live . '' ''

because big sisters are always supposed to support their little sisters .

why do we line up the square milk carton with the square fence ?

print was n't working yet , so i had to copy everything down .

we are god now . we are . it 's almost done .

that is the question .

for 30 years of his life , he made false papers — never for himself , always for other people , and to come to the aid of the persecuted and the oppressed .

it 's more economical and also more efficient .

and the first song i wrote was in english , and the second one was in chinese .

so consciousness is an illusion .

it 's up to us .

they folded samosas for our entire mosque .

those divisions are things we really need to recognize and take seriously .

( cheers ) and so i decided that i should probably write my own ted talk , and so that is what i am here to do .

our generation has seen both approaches tried , and often fail .

last month , we got the ultimate academic endorsement to our model .

it 's still working its way up the food chain .

i did n't care for it ; it was too painful .

so we take the pizza , our very first pizza , and we devour slice after slice as the deliveryman stands there and stares at us from the doorway .

you can see that this is a very early step into limits and differential calculus and what happens when you take things to an extreme — and very small sides and a very large number of sides .

and i crack up at this piece , because when i see it i know that 's french angora and all antique german ribbons and wool that i got in a nebraska mill and carried around for 10 years and then antique chinese skirts .

we put the citizen first , and not the clerks .

we dressed a cowboy as johnny cash and bolted the mannequin to the rocket . ( laughter ) ca : all right , let 's see that video then , because this is actually amazing when you think about it .

one out of every five medicare dollars get spent on alzheimer 's .

so physiological arousal predicted , in this study , attitudes toward gay marriage .

and that 's something that 's easy to forget .

that 's your job as a storyteller , is to hide the fact that you 're making them work for their meal .

why would we not want to have a positive impact on the world as a business ?

then they stop reading ?

but you know what would make it a better way ?

the crispr technology has already been used to change the dna in the cells of mice and monkeys , other organisms as well .

and so i was sitting in this restaurant , waiting for a man to come by who obviously would have some difficulty ...

we need to pull the molecules of the brain apart from each other , and to do that , we need to have a little handle that allows those polymers to bind to them and to exert their force .

the tracker i was with grew up in kruger national park .

probably in a few years , you 'll check into your mirror and it 's going to be diagnosing you .

`` i want to share with you my latest hero , julian sanchez , a libertarian who works at the , for many people , `` '' evil '' '' cato institute . ''

our first product is a new media platform for conversations .

well , we 're here because the united states , we spent two trillion dollars on wars in iraq and afghanistan that were failed .

and research shows that when kids have a consistent , nutritious breakfast ,

you know , was there something actually out there ?

they represent four percent of your cortical brain cells .

here 's the overall picture .

now go down to the mouth of the missouri , near st. louis , and it 's pretty obvious that that river is a big deal .

so instead , someone went to where that gold was being stored and they just labeled it as belonging to france now .

`` it 's called `` '' to my favorite 17-year-old high school girl . '' '' `` `` do you realize that if you had started building the parthenon on the day you were born , you would be all done in only one more year ? ''

but when i saw this , i was really fascinated , because it seemed lifelike .

it 's 150 feet by 10 feet .

in that sense , settlement , identity and social integration are all the producer and product of effective urbanism .

jared ficklin : thank you . ( applause ) there are 1,400 stars .

or maybe we want make something that 's more inexpensive and portable .

we 've mapped the afterglow with spectacular precision , and one of the shocks about it is that it 's almost completely uniform .

what about on the demand side ?

( laughter ) that 's right .

keeping the universe very , very smooth at early times is not easy ; it 's a delicate arrangement .

so it 's a very hard model to accept .

they helped .

they had taken baths hundreds of times because it was unthinkable for them to do .

and in that disconnected state , yeah , we can build factory farms with no windows , destroy marine life and use rape as a weapon of war .

who here likes the work of jackson pollock ?

`` so then you decide , `` '' well , i 'm sick of myself . ''

the first one is called advanced bio-extracts limited .

if we were to do that , they would be more successful .

as borges would have it , it 's the sand .

so we met in november 2002 , and aicha will now tell you how that came about .

i do n't think so . i do n't think it 's going to get to that extreme .

comedy has been crossing country with remarkable speed way before the internet , social media , even cable tv .

i wo n't go into the intrascatter that 's in the subtests , but they still had a neurologic issue .

so then we found out something which was very amazing for us .

so if some nutrition is not available in the vicinity of a tree , these microbes are going to get the nutrition to the tree .

i made about 200 of these paintings , some of them six to eight feet , like this one .

all of that will take time .

you see the lander getting further and further away from rosetta .

here i am with my marrow cells after the harvest .

now damien knows all about condoms , but he does n't sell them .

notice both halves of that explanation .

incredible moves .

thank you very much .

`` `` '' do n't give us any of that self-actualization stuff . ''

i did notice the news about those parts of london becoming ghost quarters , where the global super-rich turn fishy money into empty apartments and price lifelong residents of a city , young couples starting out , out of their own home .

this is n't the present .

and now we 've got the words , and we can apply the special sauce : the translation .

and you ca n't really have a proper model for development if at the same time you 're destroying or allowing the degradation of the very asset , the most important asset , which is your development asset , that is ecological infrastructure .

but when he died at the age of 94 , the police had to close down the streets of his neighborhood to accommodate the crowd of people who came out to mourn him .

so if there are genes like that , then you can imagine that , if you could change one of the genes in an experiment , an aging gene , maybe you could slow down aging and extend lifespan .

but perhaps if we can attract these mosquitos to traps , bait it with our smell , we may be able to stop transmission of disease .

in addition to cutaways , we also explain physics .

we have been told that the road to peace is not a sprint , but is more like a marathon .

most of us accept today that private property and a market economy is the best way to manage most of society 's resources .

it was n't einstein who realized this , it was karl schwarzschild who was a german jew in world war i — joined the german army already an accomplished scientist , working on the russian front .

`` they 're starting to talk about , `` '' how do you have the health community workers generate their own ideas ? ''

here is another proof that the african is not capable of governing himself .

adhd .

it should be more like private accounting .

`` i call this `` '' shiny tiger . '' '' you do not have to spend a lot of money to look great . ''

the way that we choose — sort of , our personal cartographic enterprise , also shapes the map of our lives , and that in turn shapes our lives .

but they agreed to go along with it for a while .

in 2013 , if you 're concerned about a depression diagnosis , you go to your doctor , and what do you get ?

if they can do that , why ca n't governments and ngos do the same thing ?

so , that does not stop the knock-off artists .

let me describe five ways that this can be done .

it 's been proven to me time and time again as people have walked up to me this week simply because of what i 'm wearing , and we 've had great conversations .

indian academic year begins in june .

`` there are career women who want to get married , but ca n't find a husband , because they defy gender expectations , or as one young female doctor in tunisia put it to me , `` '' the women , they are becoming more and more open . ''

all the natural products become a natural resource again .

you can see the eight chambers on the side host little baby oysters and essentially force-feed them .

( laughter ) but it 's when you put all of these elements together — when you get the viral appeal of a great joke with a powerful punchline that 's crafted from honesty and integrity , it can have a real world impact at changing a conversation .

so i devised a quiz : how well do you know your area ?

in fact , the reason why 80 to 90 percent of those brain cancer surgeries ultimately fail is because of those small little extra margins that were left positive , those small little leftover tumors that were left there .

i was prone to meditating on time and age .

we can access your documents , your data .

it turns out that tears just are n't much help when you 're trying to investigate a genocide .

infection rate stood at about two percent in my early days there .

this is basically why we would bother to do it .

i am convinced we 're all responsible for doing as much as i may have accomplished .

instead of running away from big institutions , i 've actually run toward them .

spend an afternoon , spend a whole day , talk to anybody you want .

it will be 25 percent in 10 years .

it 's a tiny jungle party .

but at 15,000 feet , it 's tough .

the day after , i came back and they were already scratched .

sufferers of capgras syndrome believe that the people they love most in the world have been replaced by perfect duplicates .

and they are giving a voice to themselves .

so , physics and marketing .

it also opened up new capabilities , like the ability to have ranges of cells .

to weigh any more than that , it has to give up neurons .

and so the lecture moves on before , really , most of the students have even noticed that a question had been asked .

`` and start asking them , `` '' how do you want to be when you grow up ? '' '' their work will constantly change . ''

we do n't have any such guarantee .

knowing that she wants to stick a needle in your skin and suck out your blood ? that 's awful , right ?

well , i hate to break it to you , but perception of reality goes extinct .

and thank you to all of them .

in which we combine hard and soft power into strategies of smart power .

they can disrupt the economy through strikes and boycotts .

before , they were closed off .

all right . let 's try this .

the arab world , too , is making progress , despite many recent setbacks .

san francisco is also spending 40 million dollars to rethink and redesign its water and sewage treatment , as water outfall pipes like this one can be flooded with seawater , causing backups at the plant , harming the bacteria that are needed to treat the waste .

he says , in fact , you 've already remembered it .

for the water system , the trees are essential .

it 's difficult and stubborn .

it dominates the high end of the market .

and so the margin is natural gas .

my skill is not in the mathematics .

outdated regulations and yesterday 's mindsets .

the good news : there 's a lot that can be done .

before i could say anything , tell him how foolish he had made me look in front of my friends , he derided me for being so naive .

and this is about 23 years into this process .

the great inequality in developing countries makes it difficult to see , for example , that in terms of transport , an advanced city is not one where even the poor use cars , but rather one where even the rich use public transport .

we do n't want to do that anymore .

thank you .

oceanographers were completely surprised .

well you , my friend , you 've came to the right place .

so that 's , every second , more than an hour of video gets uploaded .

globally , we have policies , international instruments , work leaders .

so you see , it 's all intact , completely transparent .

so let 's recap .

in fact , it 's likely happening right now as we speak .

some of you would eat it if it 's beef , but not pork .

where deserts freeze and waters boil .

the result ?

rising tensions culminated in the worst day of violence on february 20 , which became known as bloody thursday .

and then i get asked questions .

secondly : a lot of writers talk about uber and airbnb and taskrabbit and lyft and so on as part of the sharing economy .

you often see them in situations like this , or like this , and there 's no doubt that young people are very comfortable and familiar browsing and chatting and texting and gaming .

it 's okay , daddy 's here .

it was right on the heels of the rwandan genocide , and aid money to the region was drying up .

they are all-american , carbon-free and inexhaustible .

nextpedition turns the trip into a game , with surprising twists and turns along the way .

i worked on forestry issues in wwf .

you know , i grew up in the inner city , and there were kids who were failing in schools 56 years ago when i first went to school , and those schools are still lousy today , 56 years later .

statistically speaking , there is no difference in how often the neanderthal matches one african or the other .

we are not abandoned cars stalled out and sitting empty on some highway , and if in some way we are , do n't worry .

if we could understand the structure of networks in villages , we could target to whom to give the interventions to foster these kinds of spreads .

also it will attract the local marine ecology , who will find their own ecological niches within this architecture .

( laughter ) thank you .

`` `` felicity . '' ''

ka : last year , bear vasquez posted this video that he had shot outside his home in yosemite national park .

my name is ronny edry , and i 'm 41 , i 'm an israeli , i 'm a father of two , i 'm a husband , and i 'm a graphic designer . i 'm teaching graphic design .

and so it 's very important for those researchers that we 've created this resource .

in the world i describe to you , we have to be right over here at the right-hand side at six grams of carbon .

what you 're getting is a range of smaller conversations , each connected to each other through the ideas and the language they share , creating a broader concept of the environment .

imagine history being taught differently .

now that 's a before and after image , but you do n't read the image on the screen like that .

rule number three : have a plan .

so i guess we 're all patients .

very simple example .

and what do the millennials feel ?

martin luther king said that love without power is anemic and sentimental , and that power without love is reckless and abusive .

this is the most important thing , when we imagine that we need water for every activity in life .

you know , there 's nothing heroic about killing a young kid .

no one has to green-light your idea .

we need to build an arsenal of noncombative weapons in this war on terrorism .

then suddenly they started dying one after the other .

but we can do a lot more .

that meant that people were taught to be smart cowards , stay out of trouble .

it was led by felix dzerzhinsky .

this is going to change science , i believe , and it will change religion .

`` back in 1989 , when the berlin wall fell , an urban planner in london got a phone call from a colleague in moscow saying , basically , `` '' hi , this is vladimir . i 'd like to know , who 's in charge of london 's bread supply ? '' '' and the urban planner in london goes , `` '' what do you mean , who 's in charge of london 's — i mean , no one is in charge . '' '' `` `` oh , but surely someone must be in charge . ''

or would they believe in the black , static empty universe that their own state-of-the-art observations reveal ?

`` `` until you can get home ? '' ''

the wheel , ladies and gentlemen .

thank you .

somehow , i 've gotten a reputation for sternness .

and what was amazing to me — well it was pretty kickass ; he was killing a fly in the house with a gun — but what was so amazing to me was that he knew just enough how to pump it .

i always live in the present — i love the present .

and after 45 generations , you have this incredible nozzle .

you 'll have internal injuries for the rest of your life .

it just so happens that stewart 's brand of funny does n't work unless the facts are true .

how can one explain what one does at night in the lab , every single night ?

he said first , his curiosity drove him to ask hard questions about the procedure , about what worked and what did n't work .

this is the clown skull .

obviously that does n't work very well for — ca : what just happened there ? we just saw something land ?

so bigotry is n't just immoral , it can even be lethal .

what is a carpenter with no tools ?

it 's a different kind of enterprise for a new economy .

`` i was like , `` '' we are the last country in the world where women do n't drive . '' '' so if you look at the map of the world , that only leaves two countries : saudi arabia , and the other society is the rest of the world . ''

now to move and to balance , rezero needs to turn the ball .

and we can do that for another neuron in green .

what might the connections be when we start exploring our heritage , the beautiful locations and the art in this world ?

it 's always reminded me of the apollo image of the earth , the blue marble picture , and it 's similarly meant to suggest , i think , that we ca n't really understand it as a whole .

now , i hope , in the coming years , that we are able to demonstrate through some concrete examples that fear is receding and that we can take courage from that alliance with civil society in different countries to support their problem-solving , among the afghans , inside the palestinian population , between the peoples of palestine and israel .

when i turned 19 , i started my career as the first female photojournalist in the gaza strip , palestine .

rather , it was a form of political action in a context when the city budget i had available after being elected amounted to zero comma something .

on one particular occasion , one of the guards threw a grenade into the prisoners ' lavatory while it was full of prisoners .

the magazine would n't pay for me to go there .

but anyway , just a short list , two to three items in each .

on one of my last visits to pakistan , i asked dr. sono if he would take me to see some of the drip irrigation in the thar desert .

i call it my freedom staff .

a father came out of his house to tell his teenage son and his five friends that it was time for them to stop horsing around on the front lawn and on the sidewalk , to get home , finish their schoolwork , and prepare themselves for bed .

this is a training ground to sort out the regulars from the honors , a reoccurring cycle built to recycle the trash of this system .

of course , they have a carport .

i mean , to me , this was it . life could not get any better .

i 've met with presidents , dissidents , policymakers , lawyers , teachers , doctors and the man on the street , and through these conversations , it 's become clear to me that many people in the emerging markets believe that there 's actually a split occurring between what people believe ideologically in terms of politics and economics in the west and that which people believe in the rest of the world .

and between this muscle , they found nervous tissues , a lot of nervous tissues , which penetrate actually the muscle — penetrate the submucosa , where you have all the elements for the immune system .

that 's crazy . it was never designed to do things like that .

climate change is among them .

but millions of people ca n't all be pathological .

there are 800 different languages in the highlands .

they said how big the bathroom was , or they said , you know , here 's how far shopping is from the hotel .

so the theory , in a way , is kind of being validated by the treatment .

the initiative is based on a simple idea : that what we share is much more powerful than what divides us .

it also has a very low carbon footprint .

it 's been doing that since 2005 , and it 's likely to continue .

so i started making films , and i started telling these stories .

what if we reorganized this approach ?

just five days .

he maintains law and order , because remember , there 's no teacher around .

and when you turn the switch on , the light goes on .

and , more often than not , they die sooner .

we 've lost it with one another .

and sadly , the same applied to another design maverick : richard buckminster fuller .

so you can see that the basic tenets of journalism , they do n't really change here , right ?

and it can travel up to six meters per second .

and gabby , what 's on the agenda now ?

and it 's time , it really is time , to debunk the myth that a country has to choose between development on the one hand and environmental protection , renewables , quality of life , on the other .

so it looks a little bit like this .

funny thing is , the drive-thrus are killing more people than the drive-bys .

but no one knew what archimedes was doing with these 14 bits .

it 's bad history .

but bias creeps in more insidiously in what we choose to study and how we choose to study it .

now , in this discussion today , i 'm going to focus on a different aspect of moocs .

its leash had been tied to the chair as her master went in for coffee , and she was just persistent in her efforts to greet me , perhaps get a scratch behind the ear .

and then the moon in the center , and it 's floating . and this is in france .

so in place of curiosity , what we have is a culture of compliance .

how do i integrate this information into the longer course of my life ?

and they 've sent people up there to do sort of biosurveys , and there are over 50 plant species up there .

i found something that i did well and something that i loved doing , and i found a group of youngsters like me who felt the same way .

each of these fields have monster industrial applications .

a very large sample is needed .

for example , through social media .

and i learned a key insight to character .

we walk around on two legs .

your computer is grading all the exercises .

so i 'm going to tell you a little bit about reimagining food .

but neither of my parents knew this was happening .

by how much less is it expanding today , compared to , say , a couple of billion years ago ?

what 's worst , when they become codified as laws in the system , and when women themselves believe in their inferiority , and they even fight those who try to question these rules .

the companies that win awards for workplace flexibility in the united states include some of our most successful corporations , and a 2008 national study on the changing workforce showed that employees in flexible and effective workplaces are more engaged with their work , they 're more satisfied and more loyal , they have lower levels of stress and higher levels of mental health .

i have a dollar bill here to explain .

i 'm a guy who has graduated from bullshit to full-shit .

ironically , we used to turn to adultery — that was the space where we sought pure love .

so here , all of a sudden , we 're looking at a map of the human heart .

well , we believe because it has water and has had it for a significant period of time , and we believe it has hydrothermal vents with perhaps the right organic material , it is a place where life could exist .

in fact , there 's only one good thing i can think of when it gets to mosquitos .

and when we do another round of this in my class this year , they will do better this time , because learning has to include an amount of failure , because failure is instructional in the process .

if they do n't have any damage , they go to the grocery .

this is n't photoshopped .

we want to keep all the water and soil nutrition only for our trees , so we remove the weeds growing on the ground .

well , you should measure what you care about .

he does n't have the additional money , he does n't have the resources .

but it 's sublinear , and what that translates into is that , if you double the size of the organism , you actually only need 75 percent more energy .

it 's about changing our frontiers .

everything you saw there was happening with deep learning .

ca : but you 're not selling solar panels to consumers .

without it , we would have no music .

education is changing in the same way .

it makes a very precise break .

what they found on monday was evidence of the ringing of the space-time of the early universe , what we call gravitational waves from the fundamental era , and here 's how they found it .

and it turned out that joel and i were both bothered by the same thing , which was how so much of the debate was still focused on the science and how complete it was or was n't , which , to both of us , seems somewhat intentionally off point .

`` so now i live in los angeles , because the prostate cancer foundation of the u.s. is based there , and i always get asked by the media down there , because it 's so celebrity-driven , `` who are your celebrity ambassadors ? '' ''

but still , will the society , would they accept such a radical idea ?

bg : let me try to bring up three questions , playing a bit devil 's advocate .

thank you .

fast-forward to pennsylvania , where i find myself today .

the bow resembles me , and i resemble the bow .

by 2015 , we 'll be 100 percent better cotton .

so think about a portfolio of brands or maybe new brands for new ventures .

and yet i forget about it all the time .

i would like tonight to tell you a story about life that rarely gets told in an environment like this .

disengaging their colleagues .

and veterans know that any tribe that treated itself that way — in fact , any platoon that treated itself that way — would never survive .

they meet neanderthals , mix with them , continue to spread over the world , and somewhere in southeast asia , they meet denisovans and mix with them and continue on out into the pacific .

what i think makes america great is its spirit of reinvention .

now , i believed in art therapy , but i was going to have to convince service members , big , tough , strong , manly military men , and some women too , to give art-making as a psychotherapeutic intervention a try .

there 's still going to be no audio , but what i am going to do is i 'm going to render the sound visually in real time at the bottom of the screen .

they 've made it conversational .

it 's about the size of lake ontario .

this is so ubiquitous now .

now codex c was only discovered in 1906 , and it landed on my desk in baltimore on the 19th of january , 1999 .

whether it 's something simple like turning on the lights with a switch , or even as complex as programming robotics , we have always had to give a command to a machine , or even a series of commands , in order for it to do something for us .

come on , do n't tell me that people are n't ready for peace out there .

heather , she goes digging , and she finds hundreds of messages , and photos exchanged and desires expressed .

we need to be able to hold and manipulate that breath in order to form sounds .

and we started from our passions .

what nfb wanted was not a vehicle that can drive a blind person around , but a vehicle where a blind person can make active decisions and drive .

i quit my job to focus on the real world problem : landmines .

and people are suffering from all kinds of pain like neuropathic pain , lower-back pain and cancer pain from bone metastases , when the metastases get to your bones , sometimes they are very painful .

every second , your eyes can send your visual cortex as many as two billion pieces of information .

because , as the world economic forum noted , smaller gender gaps are directly correlated with increased economic competitiveness .

and you heard of this example , where , when we launched our very first course — and this was an mit-hard circuits and electronics course — about a year and a half ago , 155,000 students from 162 countries enrolled in this course .

if you go into a country with the right tools and the right way , you do it vigorously , you can actually get a local eradication .

they have to be able to teach us something as well .

children need a network . children need to be part of a tribe , a family , a community .

april .

and if you use your mobile phone , where you are .

apart from fulfilling the energy requirements of the vehicles , eventually they 're going to be becoming commercial hubs where people can take out loads or put loads into the network .

in vivian 's case , her unit of production is n't the tangible hours she works , it 's the intangible difference she makes during that one hour of work .

so obviously this is not all going to fit back in my tiny suitcase .

it was literally one of the best moments of my life .

can you afford not to ?

so we sent our lab technician out .

thank you .

so , to make cooking really a very important element , i would say even philosophers have to change and have to finally recognize that cooking is what made us .

the opposite is a giver .

so we have to figure out a way to solve the equation without a division operator .

so how about the brain ?

so i 'm just going to double-click on vesta , and here we have dawn orbiting vesta , and this is happening right now .

so , as you can see , before , there is a leveling system built into this software so that as evan , or any user , becomes more familiar with the system , they can continue to add more and more detections , so that the system begins to differentiate between different distinct thoughts .

and okolloh solicited from her commenters more information about what was going on .

it is dangerous for patients to recover from heart attacks at home .

and that 's actually what i 'd like to talk about today .

they 're probably less cell dense .

so we found that the passwords created by people affiliated with the school of computer science were actually 1.8 times stronger than those affiliated with the business school .

the first concrete blocks were manufactured in 1868 with a very simple idea : modules made of cement of a fixed measurement that fit together .

she said that when she was a young , single mother with three small children , she became severely depressed and was hospitalized to keep her safe .

but you can see how your people are communicating with each other , what times they call each other , when they go to bed .

lt : i think we all know what you mean .

this is a chart of what it looked like .

do you know to date the als association has raised 125 million dollars ?

and then i managed a restaurant , and then i slipped on things .

tamara , would you like to jump in ?

talking about empowerment is odd , because when we talk about empowerment , what affects us most are the stories .

so , i will not answer the question .

your life as you know it goes into suspended animation .

they then paved them .

but not only just that , we will start to think about how we can start to develop a symbiotic relationship with biology .

first , as regards usefulness , older people continue to perform useful services .

as it bites the second time , i kick .

we 're designing for reuse from the very beginning , because everything does get reused , only now we 're planning for it .

( applause )

i 'm mckenna pope . i 'm 14 years old , and when i was 13 , i convinced one of the largest toy companies , toymakers , in the world , hasbro , to change the way that they marketed one of their most best-selling products .

it means skilled and confident women .

things like the corporate social responsibility programs , albeit small in scale , are moving in that right direction .

`` i woke up in intensive care , and the doctors were really excited that the operation had been a success because at that stage i had a little bit of movement in one of my big toes , and i thought , `` '' great , because i 'm going to the olympics ! '' '' ( laughter ) i had no idea . that 's the sort of thing that happens to someone else , not me , surely . ''

now , sadly , neurological disorders such as parkinson 's disease gradually destroy this extraordinary ability , as it is doing to my friend jan stripling , who was a virtuoso ballet dancer in his time .

you can do it too , say yes every time your child asks you to play .

in the end , perhaps , being human is much more important than being fully in the know .

i ran away .

because that is where dignity really starts .

( applause )

which might be why when i looked at the earliest accounts we have of that night , what struck me even more than what happened was what did not happen .

we had to replace them with recyclable plastic .

a type ii error is not believing a pattern is real when it is .

but the victorians actually did it .

now i think that 's a very beautiful idea and a very true idea .

we live in a very complex environment : complexity and dynamism and patterns of evidence from satellite photographs , from videos .

see , starbucks you awake , we keep you awake and alive .

anyone want to guess the answer ?

i think you 're a person who believes in your legacy .

we 've worked on small schools , we 've funded scholarships , we 've done things in libraries .

evaluation is one thing . you hear a lot about evaluation in the literature these days , in the educational literature , but evaluation really amounts to feedback and it amounts to an opportunity for trial and error .

you do n't have to be an engineer to make beautiful houses , beautiful bridges , beautiful buildings .

they took the eggs and the milk out of the powder .

i could assemble them into a life , a long life , a hundred-year life , the entirety of that same great sequence through which the luckiest among us pass .

our friends , our families and our colleagues can break our security even when we do the right things .

let 's hear from tony hayward again .

you may have read that we put watermarks in .

but you will also notice something else about this map .

could n't have done it 20 years ago when the idea of having any language you wanted in your pocket , coming from your phone , would have sounded like science fiction to very sophisticated people .

scientists argue about this all the time .

and how you think about what you 're experiencing , your beliefs about the essence of it , affect how it hurts .

it 's such an extraordinarily artificial color .

you can see the six solar collectors at the center there .

when i 'm wearing fresh gear i do n't have to hide , and i really must get some new gear soon or my ego will pop like a 10-cent balloon .

video : ♪♫ frosty the coal man is a jolly , happy soul .

but what about this cat ?

so in the months and years ahead , global citizens will hold world leaders accountable to ensure that the new global goals for sustainable development are tracked and implemented .

now we are very far from this across the arab region , and so much needs to change : law , education , media , the economy , the list goes on and on , and it is the work of a generation , at least .

it 's a syllabary and reads from left to right .

happily , we 're not machines , and we can do it .

it 'd be really interesting if you came .

( music ) ( video ) sarah brown wessling : good morning everybody .

and during the course of one of her dance rehearsals , she fell on her outstretched arm and sprained her wrist .

just one number , the higgs boson mass , and yet , out of this number we learn so much .

but we had that habit in sweden , you know , that we counted all the child deaths , even if we did n't do anything about it .

half the city was dark because of a power cut , and i was living on the dark side .

and i thought about it , and i came up with one .

i want to tell you about a teenage boy .

and to make his prayer book he used parchment .

one : i graduated from harvard at 19 with an honors degree in mathematics .

and together with this new type of interfaces , we can use these technologies and apply them to safer cars for sighted people .

it 's like fallujah . shooting everywhere .

one question we asked is whether quantum tunneling plays a role in mutations in dna .

they 're a matter of public policy .

this is an example from a new version of scratch that we 'll be releasing in the next few months , and we 're looking again to be able to push you in new directions .

brandon 's post created a global sensation that touched the lives of millions .

these look like injection-molded parts , which is very different than traditional 3d manufacturing .

( applause ) thank you . ( applause )

i 'm sure i was trying to encourage myself to get out and explore london , but the message i missed was the need to start exploring and embracing myself .

here is what happened next : penicillin was distributed in 1943 , and widespread penicillin resistance arrived by 1945 .

well every day , all over the place , it 's being done by ordinary people , by officials , by institutions , quite effectively .

so let 's begin at the end .

i did n't have to try to flap my wings .

`` i go , `` '' great . '' '' and so they drive me down , they get me out on the tarmac , and there was this red , white and blue airplane . ''

it 's up there .

they 're under constant mechanical forces .

when we act together , the whole thing is much more than the sum of the parts .

we are seeing an explosion of new investment .

let me mention eight things .

i call it cognitive surplus .

this is 1962 , and united states was emitting 16 tons per person .

but in this experiment we also hired an acting student .

`` at least that 's what it says on my pen . '' '' ( laughter ) some of you are in the field , i can see . ''

`` in fact , i call this the era of `` '' always-on '' '' transformation . ''

he was 20-some years older than anybody else in the sample .

`` in order to survive , he needed to be working . he asked the man to write `` '' dyer . '' '' suddenly the man looked very , very interested . ''

this now bears very little physical or psychological reference to our own state .

the label had told me that these pieces were made by the sèvres manufactory , made of porcelain in the late 1750s , and designed by a designer called jean-claude duplessis , actually somebody of extraordinary distinction as i later learned .

here are two of them .

people started to get to know each other .

and we 're at the trainee warm-up track , which is a few blocks away from the olympic stadium .

a couple years ago , i was in south africa on safari .

so they need to figure out how , in a computer , to flatten an airbag .

the professional journals wo n't touch it with a barge pole .

again , i 'm putting your anterior cingulate cortex to the test here , causing you conflicting pattern detections .

no , we 're not .

the first component is that when you move away from the constraints of a physical classroom and design content explicitly for an online format , you can break away from , for example , the monolithic one-hour lecture .

and a year after that , we did conquer it .

the conventional papaya around the outside is severely infected with the virus .

and an idea started to develop .

and that , in fact , if we really want to understand human emotions , we need to think about them in this way .

here 's a net in the sea , and the fish have been pulled from the sea into this net .

the 10 of hearts ?

so i decided to go further in this direction and go in places where there were zero museums .

thank you .

so artist books , you take them off the wall .

a depression would do that .

but here 's a face from 20th century science that might surprise you in a discussion about compassion .

and now we can see inside of the brain with a resolution and ability that was never before available , and essentially learn how to reconstruct , and maybe even re-engineer , or backwards engineer , the brain so we can better understand pathology , disease and therapy .

what is this for ?

`` mahatma gandhi , one of the greatest civil fighters of all time , said , `` be the change you wish to see in the world . '' ''

but those tellers were doing somewhat different work .

all bacteria , all plants , all animals , all humans , all cows , everything else .

exactly . because i 'm not even touching it .

now here , i have a personal interest .

( music ) ( applause ) thank you .

but you know , at a local level , you scale ; everybody in this room is scaled .

and on these punch cards , there are a bunch of holes , and i said , thank you , thank you , okay , so what 's on here ?

there have been multiple times in life when i have been forewarned that a low-power person has been given the advice to come ask me for advice .

we take them and rip them out of their native environment , throw them in one of these dishes , and expect them to work .

i was able to leave , because of one final , sadistic beating that broke through my denial .

it 's more or less like we are forest heroes , but still deforestation champions .

i disagree with this definition of nature , because , fundamentally , we are animals .

heart disease seems far more serious .

we needed a sustainable movement , not one that is susceptible to the fluctuating moods of a politician or the hint of an economic downturn .

( applause )

like this is a painting of a snake in a box .

things start to get really crazy .

but i want to take you into one cluster that 's particularly important to me , and that 's the environment .

so we went to work on these optically perfect binoculars , trying to find a solution that would maintain his true robot materials but solve this reflection problem .

blindness was a death sentence for my independence .

and large-scale has meant destruction of many of our landscapes , destruction of biodiversity — still a lonely emu here in the brazilian cerrado soybean fields .

it was actually interesting that such a communist principle was the basis of a system developed during the cold war by the defense department , but it obviously worked really well , and we all saw what happened with the internet .

child : whoa ! look at that snake !

here 's my solution .

the point is , we should not be confident that we have this under control here .

so , in a typical sunny day in the amazon , a big tree manages to transfer 1,000 liters of water through its transpiration — 1,000 liters .

what if you could bring with you just a few packets of seeds , and grow crops in a matter of hours ?

workers who have a reason to get home to care for their children or their family members are more focused , more efficient , more results-focused .

it fundamentally changed the dynamic of our conversation .

the silent majority does not need to be silent .

we 'd certainly done stupider things .

i went to visit canada , in british columbia , together with the chiefs of the forest services of other countries that we have a kind of alliance of them , like canada , russia , india , china , u.s .

you managed to push culture forward through your art while also achieving world-beating commercial success .

together they moved to arizona and built a life .

thank you .

so you might be thinking , the wave bubble sounds great .

and all the girlies , girlies running , running , running , everybody except for my daughter , who was just standing at the starting line , just waving , because she did n't know she was supposed to run .

and the innovation is moving very rapidly .

and at the end of the day , i packed up to leave the hospital and walked to the parking lot to take my car and drive home when i did something that i do n't usually do .

and this is an excerpt from my first editor 's letter , where i say that rookie , we do n't have all the answers , we 're still figuring it out too , but the point is not to give girls the answers , and not even give them permission to find the answers themselves , but hopefully inspire them to understand that they can give themselves that permission , they can ask their own questions , find their own answers , all of that , and rookie , i think we 've been trying to make it a nice place for all of that to be figured out .

hopefully , not literally .

i had thought about , a long time ago , in the late '60s — when i was just starting out , i was under the influence of thinking about buckminster fuller 's grand project for an electric globe across from the united nations — and other things that were happening , the space program at that time , and whole earth catalog , things like that .

we published the idea in the journal foreign affairs .

he can no longer swallow or eat .

firstly , it 's trying to remind you of what there is to love .

beneficence .

maybe i was n't as smart , but i was at least as talkative .

`` `` even this i get to experience . '' ''

as a result , i come to believe that in reality , there 's a red tomato a meter away .

( applause ) henry evans : hello .

thank you for mentioning the issue of the kidnap of my mother .

but i took the job and i went on looking at these vases .

that means that it 's starting to seem like a character defect not to want to be a fully engaged father .

remember what pulled up the poor .

well , the kids loved the food .

today is day number 233 in which i only eat dinner .

em : yeah . the goal of tesla has always been to have a sort of three-step process , where version one was an expensive car at low volume , version two is medium priced and medium volume , and then version three would be low price , high volume .

`` he said , `` '' would you like to have a go at taxiing ? '' '' that 's when you use your feet to control the rudder pedals to control the airplane on the ground . ''

`` they ask people in malarious parts of the world , `` what do you think about malaria ? '' ''

nor was it authenticity that i was looking for .

the idea is that , with free electricity , they will no longer have to use firewood to cook their food .

but what if you could sequence genomes on the fly ?

thank you . ( applause )

it does n't matter how big or small they are .

what 's the point of teaching people math ?

i might , after all , know that she was n't a good driver .

last week alone , i got 238 pieces of nasty email and more hate tweets than i can even count .

and guess what ?

we had investment from the chinese .

everybody must be able to know what he or she has experienced is true , and this only goes with another person .

i and my colleagues had always thought that these objects , in way , summed up the idea of , you know — no wonder there was a revolution .

it 's a bit more difficult to tell who lives where now , is n't it ?

come on , you 're thinking .

the problem is that , what begins as a tragedy in the third world could easily become a global problem .

and the world did n't end .

and this is all over mathematics and this is all over computer science , and there 's a really deep connection between empathy and these sciences .

because climate change is a shared global problem , there are some really compelling reasons why we should be printing that international currency that 's issued by the imf , to fund it .

with all the uneven walls and all the crap everywhere , it actually sounded pretty good .

self-transformation is empowering , energizing , even exhilarating .

`` actually , in fact , if you look in the dictionary , many dictionaries define pursuit as to `` '' chase with hostility . '' '' do we pursue happiness with hostility ? ''

teaching elements of persuasion , it does n't get any more real than that .

the funny thing about sustainability , you have to sustain it .

i was n't supposed to have theatre departments with seasonal plays and concerts — digital , visual , performing arts .

why did i choose to study this organ that is so awesome in its complexity that it might well be infinite ?

and this kind of thing would have been impossible without a microphone .

no , we 're having a little fun .

`` and it went like this : `` '' r-o-w-d-i-e , that 's the way we spell rowdie . ''

this we can do .

i got out of school in '51 .

the who estimates that within africa , up to half the vaccines used there are considered to not be working properly because at some point the cold chain has fallen over .

and there are many reasons for this .

so if you 're curious , get up close and personal with dna — today .

it 's able to actually develop targeted antibodies to threats that it 's never even met before .

i guess you 're going to send that applause to the 350 journalists who worked with you , right ?

( applause )

ladies and gentlemen , and more importantly , mo bros and mo sistas — ( laughter ) — for the next 17 minutes , i 'm going to share with you my movember journey , and how , through that journey , we 've redefined charity , we 're redefining the way prostate cancer researchers are working together throughout the world , and i hope , through that process , that i inspire you to create something significant in your life , something significant that will go on and make this world a better place .

and it turns out that illiterate people are masters of delegation .

so it 's important to empathize with the groups that we on the left think are so important .

i hear education systems are failing , but i believe they 're succeeding at what they 're built to do — to train you , to keep you on track , to track down an american dream that has failed so many of us all .

both are fairly bad for your health . ( laughter ) if you look at it as a brand in those ways , what you 'll come to realize is , it 's a pretty flawed product .

and he stopped doing this .

and this means that we do n't have to rely on the banks anymore to secure our transactions .

i invented a device called the marrowminer , a much less invasive way for harvesting bone marrow .

you would literally hear the sound .

its job is to filter out the blood and put waste into the urine .

if you can convince me we can do all that , then , yes , i would take the two percent .

the playful state of mind is fundamentally exploratory , seeking out new possibilities in the world around us .

was he beheaded in the end , or hung ?

so , for example , most of you are probably familiar with the notion of herd immunity .

dodged by death , he spent much of his time in his suite at the waldorf-astoria .

and even in today 's dolby world , there 's not really any moment of silence if you listen around you .

( laughter ) this has a diamond-bottomed lake .

an architect designs a building , and it becomes a place , or many architects design many buildings , and it becomes a city , and regardless of this complicated mix of forces of politics and culture and economics that shapes these places , at the end of the day , you can go and you can visit them . you can walk around them .

two children watch a tedtalk .

it 's smaller than this .

but here 's the thing . algorithms are rules . they 're binary .

but how to reach it ?

and i tend to think of it like my shadow .

rs : thank you so much .

and again , going on thinking about this , i realize that in a way we 're all victims of a certain kind of tyranny of the triumph of modernism whereby form and function in an object have to follow one another , or are deemed to do so .

search out the companies that are acting on this .

( laughter ) when something is so common , it 's no longer news — car crashes , domestic violence — those are the risks you worry about .

( cheers ) np : sorry ? i ca n't hear you . ( cheers )

now this is a concept that i 'm currently researching and writing my next book on , and currently define as the worth of your reputation , your intentions , capabilities and values across communities and marketplaces .

i get to meet all kinds of great people ; my dollars usually go to a good cause ; i look pretty unique ; and it makes shopping like my own personal treasure hunt .

and that brings me to the reason that i 'm here .

i was no longer just a commodity .

but is , in fact , about the art of delegation .

so let 's look at some projects .

let 's see how .

it means large-scale hydraulic fracking for gas and massive strip-mining operations for coal , the likes of which we have n't yet seen .

those gravitational waves in the structure of space are totally invisible for all practical purposes .

the second is the nature of the virus .

there are scenes in every movie that struggle to come together .

they said , one , the bridge does n't exist .

there was armed forces tv , and if you did n't speak korean , that 's what you were watching .

and interestingly enough , bono is also a ted prize winner .

it would also be able to be an open code , so people could interact with it .

so what i have here is a wireless router .

i think not .

and it 's not just up to the cheryl barbaras and the donna martins of the world .

but automation in cars allowed that to separate , so driving is now a quite separate subject , so to speak , from engineering of the car or learning how to service it .

and what do you see here ?

so i think this audience in particular can understand the importance of individuality .

narrator : the first group builds a cubicle in which the walls are screens for the computer and for family photos .

( applause )

this is a fee-pay school . this is a good school .

cp : yes and no .

surely , we can tap into that kind of talent and tools to stop babies dying in the poor world .

well .

and they clearly cheated in a very , very serious way .

but it was the canals and railroads and telegraph ; it was radar and the internet .

but as a negotiations researcher , i insisted he make a counteroffer , and i helped him craft the perfect one .

the way a hoof comes up with a horse immediately gives you the feeling that it 's a convincing horse action .

it seemed like there was a moment when the continent was being plugged in , and i wanted to see that .

my account gets frozen , and i ca n't get paid .

mw : but how do we get into the airport ?

thank you very much . ( applause ) ( applause )

our customer loyalty skyrocketed .

and really , that is unfair .

i mean , astounding ; no one has this .

it 's becoming a community .

and that means that there is a one-way transfer of energy from our environment into our homes and cities .

but much of what we fear seems to be each other .

computers allow us to do that — and this is not a small problem by any means .

`` next time you install something , look at the settings and ask yourself , `` '' is this information that i want to share ? ''

what was that about ?

i remember we cried profusely when the little goats we played with in the summer became biriani .

`` ubuntu says , `` '' i am because we are . '' '' prosperity is a shared endeavor . ''

you can use — which i did , went out and did — michael persinger 's god helmet , that bombards your temporal lobes with electromagnetic waves .

perhaps we need to focus on that and get that message back across .

now this was revolutionary .

and so i think that this is actually , of all the problems you 're going to hear about at the conference , this is probably one of the very easiest to fix .

we do our best , based upon our training and the way the cancer looks and the way it feels and its relationship to other structures and all of our experience , we say , you know what , the cancer 's gone .

as you can see , we can create any world that we want inside the computer .

and when i was 12 and in my first year of high school , i started raising money for communities in the developing world .

`` my friend richard mazuch , an architect in london , coined the phrase `` '' invisible architecture . '' '' i love that phrase . ''

but chances are , they 'll probably have a cheap , $ 20 android phone in their pocket .

and so we need guidance and we need didactic learning .

our behaviors transform , often relatively quickly .

that 's the reality of the united states .

we 're back at the site just south of cairo .

so imagine if we can help enhance their efficiency using these deep learning approaches ?

if that guy 's going down to zero , i 'll know .

the only thing they 're missing is that it takes a good crisis to get us going .

in this case , it got kind of confused .

and this process goes on and on and on .

but it 's now your turn .

`` and i grabbed this book off , and i 'm sitting on the couch going , `` '' i know what i 'm going to do . ''

these were the people on the reserve who were responsible for its well-being .

the first reason is certainly scientific .

this is what her arm looked like when she came to my clinic about three months after her sprain .

now let me go back to the question of power transition between states and what 's happening there .

for almost all the years of life on earth , there was no intelligent life .

but i 've always preferred [ inspector ] lestrade , who is the rat-faced head of scotland yard who needs holmes desperately , needs holmes ' genius , but resents him .

when i first got on that plane for somalia as a young doctor , i had no idea what it meant to live with war .

and when i sat down on that test bench with sand still swirling all around me , the railing hit exactly at eye level , blocking my view and ruining my experience at the water 's edge .

and i 've just given you a cartoon version of one of the major differences you would have seen if you went back that long .

and more streets with mathematicians ' names , too .

thank you .

clearly , we can not continue on this path which puts the environment , public health , and food security at risk .

`` he is probably best known as the author of `` '' the black dahlia '' '' and `` '' l.a . confidential . '' '' his most recent novel was called this , which is a very mysterious name that i 'm sure a lot of people know what it means , but a lot of people do n't . ''

we observe facial expressions , body language , and we can intuit feelings and emotions from our dialogue with one another .

living with a physical disability is n't easy anywhere in the world , but if you live in a country like the united states , there 's certain appurtenances available to you that do make life easier .

they 're waking up to their desire and duty to be present fathers and sons .

it did have a ram pack .

and if you compare this to the microbes in a different air handling unit , you 'll see that they 're fundamentally different .

in fact , it 's going to require twice the world 's supply of oil to run the pumps to generate the water .

we need a universal translator .

you can find spiders in nearly every terrestrial habitat .

that is the reality of our modern life .

so the image is that we 're not only on a treadmill that 's going faster , but we have to change the treadmill faster and faster .

and what you see is that there is a pretty good correlation , so we can pretty well predict the relative age of a person .

we heard over the last couple days what an urgent problem cancer still is in our society , what a pressing need it is for us to not have one person die every minute .

it does n't look like anything 's going on .

but what if passion has a finite shelf life ?

and i 'm able to learn a lot from it .

that 's 10 inches .

landscape was not enough .

my area is the atomic nucleus , which is the tiny dot inside an atom .

this is actually a picture of the printing mechanism for another machine of his , called the difference engine no . 2 , which he never built , but which the science museum did build in the '80s and '90s .

we survey the sacred groves , or sacred forests around old temples .

as you leave here today , i would like to leave you with a very personal message , which is what it is that i believe we should be doing as individuals , and this is really about being open-minded , open-minded to the fact that our hopes and dreams of creating prosperity for people around the world , creating and meaningfully putting a dent in poverty for hundreds of millions of people , has to be based in being open-minded , because these systems have good things and they have bad things .

this is the landscape of one medicine .

and here 's another person in , call it , high school and college .

these are the actual surgical screws used in reconstructing her ankle .

and they 're trucked in in semi-loads , and they must be trucked out , because after bloom , the almond orchards are a vast and flowerless landscape .

the sexual strategies and reproductive structures that we see in the animal kingdom basically dictate how males and females will react to each other , which then dictates how populations and societies form and evolve .

and they gave me lodging with a single mother and her daughter .

so even though i 'm really interested in the relationship between people , i also consider the ways in which we relate to the world around us .

and eventually , we 're going to hear the little guy just fall into the bigger guy .

sp : well , that sounds good in theory , but has it worked that way in practice ?

`` the moment i really understood that something was happening , a friend of mine told me , `` google the word 'israel . ' '' and those were the first images on those days that popped up from google when you were typing , `` '' israel '' '' or `` '' iran . '' '' we really changed how people see the middle east . ''

and i ended up in a town called frackville .

50 years ago , he gave a series of a bunch of different lectures .

`` the hindus say , `` '' nada brahma , '' '' one translation of which is , `` '' the world is sound . '' '' and in a way , that 's true , because everything is vibrating . ''

crispr is going to be amazing , in terms of the number of different scientific advances that it 's going to catalyze .

but is that more important than saving human lives ?

and i 'm grateful for the opportunity to share this voyage with you today .

so if you 'd all close your eyes for just a moment , okay ?

it could be anything that 's anti-icing , because if you do n't have water , you do n't have ice .

this is an example of just one act of defiance in just one city .

next , conventional fertilizer , if used responsibly , is environmentally sustainable .

i met two 13-year-olds with soft manners and gentle voices .

we usually do n't care for , repair , clean , carry around our coffee cup , our shopping bag , our bottle of water .

someone makes a dash for the elevator .

so that means drilling for oil in the deepest water , including the icy arctic seas , where a clean-up may simply be impossible .

yes , of course , it 's a cow .

but in fact , what we 've seen is none of those were true .

and for a few days you got those images .

and this seems quite a profound question .

it 's a very wuzzy line .

it was the year i left university .

i 've taken that robert kennedy quote , and i 've turned it into a new balance sheet for just a moment here .

does that make streets more or less safe ?

if we make the edges of those petals exactly right , if we control their shape , we can control diffraction , and now we have a great shadow .

in order to get test scores to go up , teachers will end up teaching to the test .

going blind taught me to live my life eyes wide open .

i wanted to figure out how to maximize my own profile online .

but i want to just point out to you that 95 percent of the nuclear weapons at any particular time since 1985 — going forward , of course — were part of the arsenals of the united states and the soviet union .

i trained as a cancer doctor , an oncologist .

and a north atlantic right whale can transmit across hundreds of miles .

because i 'm an extension of my work , and if they love me , then they will love my work , and if they love my work , then they will love poetry , and if they love poetry , then i will have done my job , which is to transcend it to the world .

so oxytocin connects us to other people .

well , if that had been the case , there would have been no industrial revolution .

( applause ) dania gerhardt : thank you very much , nicolas , for this great start . little bit nervous ?

why was n't there a legal way for her to study in europe ?

this was what apparently , as it turns out , was behind all this .

and look at its front legs . they 're roaringly hot .

the yellow box was called the administration complex .

they 've found in many developing countries that governments have gone in and given out free latrines and gone back a few years later and found that they 've got lots of new goat sheds or temples or spare rooms with their owners happily walking past them and going over to the open defecating ground .

and nowhere was this brought home more than during hurricane sandy . so what you had in hurricane sandy was a superstorm , the likes of which we had n't seen for a long time , hitting the iphone capital of the universe — ( laughter ) — and you got volumes of media like we 'd never seen before .

finally , it 's our belief in peer-to-peer learning .

it 's going to be built by users , by people who get this data together , by people who want to aggregate all sorts of maps from wherever they come from , all sorts of medieval romances from wherever they come from , people who just want to curate their own glorious selection of beautiful things .

we 're going to continue to look at new ways of bringing together the physical world and the virtual world and connecting to the world around us .

and start suppressing their church giggles .

but , of course , i can look at the opinion polls , and the opinion polls are supposedly the source of a belief that trust has declined .

that 's a good audience , chris .

and that brings us back to this graph and this distribution of our life .

that 's right , cybercriminals do have christmas parties , as it turns out .

the second : you seem powerful in the eyes of others .

what that means , of course , is that , in the past , things were closer together .

my story started in england with a clean slate and the silence of immigrant parents .

so i want to wind up by just showing that people have the capacity to understand this information .

and the tapir has a prehensile penis .

crucially , we have n't been figuring out how to live in oneness with the earth and every other living thing .

so , no male journalists get the story .

and we can begin to say how much variance do we find , how many letters that vary in at least one of those individual sequences .

in this case , supply right next to demand .

now , the dr. frankenstein moment , when the spoofer finally came alive and i glimpsed its awful potential , came late one night when i tested the spoofer against my iphone .

when did you do a video with him ?

i was eight at the time , living in the village with my grandmother , who was raising me and other children .

he felt it . he lived it .

the tectonic plates of world politics were shifting .

i see wheelchairs bought and sold like used cars .

i think it was really the importance of the injustice that really struck me very forcibly .

now let me give you an example from my act .

these incredible images of our cast were seen worldwide .

yes , futureless language speakers , even after this level of control , are 30 percent more likely to report having saved in any given year .

and that approach needs to be centered on the idea that we need to change the economics for the bad guys .

landing on the moon ! come on !

narrator : repower america . it 's time to get real .

so they have all of the information embedded in them of what was constructed .

a study in florida just a few years ago found that if you 're sitting where this photograph was taken in the classroom , row four , speech intelligibility is just 50 percent .

communication , the next c. this is critical .

i heard it was one of the most violent favelas , because the largest drug cartel controls it .

skeletons are ubiquitous ; they 're found all over the place .

instead of liberal democracy , they have de-prioritized the democratic system .

all other animals use their communication system only to describe reality .

how early ?

is it a utilitarian object ?

archie lets it die down .

but for me , they summed up a kind of , that sort of sheer uselessness of the aristocracy in the 18th century .

i think of like , transformers , like how panels open and then they fold , they fold in , and then you close that panel .

tell us about him .

there 's a lot of ways to do this with data .

he 's much more likely to bring in new clients for his firm than a lawyer who never leaves his office .

besides the known higgs state , there could be a second state in which the higgs field is billions and billions times denser than what we observe today , and the mere existence of another state of the higgs field poses a potential problem .

and then it was made worse — there were two of them .

so it 's an interesting position to be in as a journalist , because we should have access to everything .

one lovely experiment was done by kurt gray and dan wegner .

what we rely on is not an incomplete system .

this is a painting from the 16th century from lucas cranach the elder .

invest in the change you want to see in the world .

misdirection is n't the only trick that comedy has up its sleeve .

it has to be about transition .

to give them a better choice , it 's going to have to meet the chindia test .

and so this opens up the whole idea of looking at colony health .

so we did the math .

and germany now has more solar workers than america has steel workers .

well , you might well ask , what exactly is an anonymous company , and can i really set one up , and use it , without anyone knowing who i am ?

so the question is , how can we use this ?

( laughter ) is it because his name is really jupiter blunck ? ( laughter )

how do you create a day voted by every single head of state in the world to create the first ever ceasefire nonviolence day , the 21st of september ?

open an application , that 's an effect .

he wanted to be a chef really badly .

a study of 24 intersections has found crashes drop 40 percent from when you convert a traffic light into a roundabout .

they send him to iraq .

hockey .

it is simply having more consideration for others .

but if there 's dark energy , and the dark energy does not go away , the universe is just going to keep expanding forever and ever and ever .

so we packed this prototype of a sensor , and we shipped it to bangladesh .

they have massive computing power at their fingertips — 10 to 100 times bigger than all of google worldwide .

if you believe that i am my connectome , i think you must also accept the idea that death is the destruction of your connectome .

we have both learned the art of capture .

( applause )

because , quite literally , if agriculture does n't adapt to climate change , neither will we .

to change its state , by the way , takes two volts from a millisecond pulse .

over dinner , i asked him an impertinent question .

quiet parts could be heard that would have been drowned out by all the gossiping and shouting .

this is what neuropathologists do , for example .

so once we do that , i 'll no longer be angry . ( laughter ) so , you guys , help me get there .

`` when you make an investment , what you 're really saying is , `` '' i accept that any one of these 100 things could happen to me and determine my wealth . '' '' now you can try to move your outcomes around . ''

and also , colors , lighting , sound and effects can dynamically respond to your emotional state to heighten the experience that you 're having , in real time .

i do n't like beautiful buildings built for totalitarian regimes .

so because of having cooked food , it 's easier to digest .

there is such a thing , by the way .

so it became a cold case .

`` i want you to bring her home because we do n't have safe homes . '' '' the story of this little girl : she had been raped by her paternal grandfather every day for six months . ''

well , that leaves 62 hours for other things .

this is the largest single monochromatic blue environment on our planet .

`` but you fuck one goat ... `` '' ( laughter ) storytelling — ( laughter ) is joke telling . ''

there are many ways to be a mammal . a 'roo hops in oz ; a horse runs in asia ; and a wolf evolves stilt legs in brazil .

but it is also a story about what it 's like to be a refugee in europe today .

can you rotate ?

they were doctors and dissidents , artists and organizers .

one fact is not true .

and then one would hope that the principals got the letter , received it , understood it and started implementing it .

so we 're using these network motifs to find talks that are unique , ones that are creatively synthesizing a lot of different fields , ones that are central to their topic , and ones that are really creatively bridging disparate fields .

this is measured by something called the reading the mind in the eyes test .

but if , and i was in sweden this summer , if the discourse in sweden is fairly politically correct and they ca n't talk about the downsides , you end up bringing a lot of people in .

so the main reason for saying that our brain is larger than it should be actually comes from comparing ourselves to great apes .

and it even got better .

but instead , ian could use personal dna machines small enough to be placed in front of the air-conditioning unit to keep sequencing the virus and keep saving lives .

mr : well , we first tried to get her to the best doctors we could .

but it 's not the only one .

so we went and we looked for a second free internet tool called wolfram alpha , and we checked the weather reports for the day in which this video had been uploaded , and when we went through all those various cities , we found that in florida , there were thunderstorms and rain on the day .

but he was , in fact , a moral philosopher , and he was right on why we 're moral .

you multiply two times three and you 're done .

and that is bread — something which is as simple as our basic , most fundamental human staple .

it does a little double dance , and then it heads back in exactly the same direction it went in the first place .

watch the fingers grab . the thumb comes up . wrist .

because at the beginning i was so outraged at the dangers they were exposing us to that i just wanted to argue and blame and make them wrong .

if we could understand how to target , it could affect the efficiency of what we 're trying to achieve .

it can only add new boxes , new bones in the skeleton .

for some of them , it 's given them a connection to something bigger , giving something back , using their talents on something other than skinny models and perfect skin .

hitler had two of them , and he did n't have any .

how to do it ?

`` `` there 's bread ! god , you 've answered my plea . you 've answered my question . '' ''

are n't they ?

so all of our construction of reality is through these limited senses .

it ca n't be traced to any one moment .

but changing the law is n't .

we started publishing .

and everyone agreed that france owned the gold .

we call it dark energy , and it has this effect of causing space to expand .

it 's a bit of a cross of my arm .

( laughter ) we 've been fooled by our tool .

the opportunity to do this kind of genome editing also raises various ethical issues that we have to consider , because this technology can be employed not only in adult cells , but also in the embryos of organisms , including our own species .

it sounds a little bit like a weird book , but actually they 're all new types of lies .

and from the future self 's point of view , everything is in reverse .

( video ) computer : a zebra standing in a field of grass .

take classical composers , the best of the best .

we 've done right now two human brains-worth of data .

thank you .

`` and he said , `` '' so what are you going to do to celebrate ? '' '' and i took that driving lesson , and i said , `` '' i 'm going to learn how to drive . '' '' and then there was a silence — one of those awful silences when you know something 's wrong . ''

in the other condition , they 're told that the person in the next room is shocking them on purpose — knows they 're shocking them .

and i wanted to give up .

the space bar scrolls down one page .

it ignores the environment .

this mindset is what i 'm personally passionate about .

and this has led in congo basin , and other parts of the world , to what is known as the bush-meat trade .

because sirna is strongly negatively charged , we can protect it with a nice , protective layer of positively charged polymer .

over 85 percent of abusers are men , and domestic abuse happens only in intimate , interdependent , long-term relationships , in other words , in families , the last place we would want or expect to find violence , which is one reason domestic abuse is so confusing .

they even had the hospital parking tickets in there .

more of that in a minute .

the goal of spacex is to try to advance rocket technology , and in particular to try to crack a problem that i think is vital for humanity to become a space-faring civilization , which is to have a rapidly and fully reusable rocket .

it was also people 's deep longing for freedom .

and but for a little transitional tail of natural gas and a bit of biofuel grown in ways that sustain and endure , this new fire is flameless .

deaths actually peaked at a bit over five million in the 1930s .

but the minute they began nibbling from the tree of the knowledge of good and evil , they fell from their innocence .

it 's hard because righteous indignation , that sense of certainty that ours is the right side , is so seductive .

so since i was here last in '06 , we discovered that global climate change is turning out to be a pretty serious issue , so we covered that fairly extensively in skeptic magazine .

the silent majority needs to know .

but i had this question .

and there 's not much there .

i 'm really just talking about the compendium of social practices of adaptation that enable many of these migrant communities to transgress imposed political and economic recipes of urbanization .

`` now `` '' kindness '' '' might sound like a very mild word , and it 's prone to its own abundant cliche . ''

now , tom ripley goes from wanting you or wanting what you have to being you and having what you once had , and you 're under the floorboards , he 's answering to your name , he 's wearing your rings , emptying your bank account .

you think you know right and wrong ?

what we 've forgotten is something that vinod khosla used to talk about , a man of indian ethnicity but an american venture capitalist .

i thought it would be creepy to hear my own voice coming from a computer .

so what will you do ? i 'll tell you what i did and why i did it . and i know my time 's up .

lightning lit the sky , and a baby was born .

we 're too busy keeping out the giraffes — putting the kids on the bus in the morning , getting ourselves to work on time , surviving email overload and shop floor politics , foraging for groceries , throwing together meals , escaping for a couple of precious hours in the evening into prime-time tv or ted online , getting from one end of the day to the other , keeping out the giraffes .

and so the job losses that came with the internet and all that content theft , have therefore left us with negative employment in our content industries .

so i wanted to open my own eyes to my own sea blindness , so i ran away to sea .

then we sat in a circle with support , with help , from people experienced in this kind of reconciliation .

i could have taken him to new york , and he would have died in a day .

this is politics , not from top down , but from the bottom up , and sideways , and allowing everybody 's voice to be heard is exactly what we need .

first , when i walk into a room like this , i never know if someone there has experienced loss because of what my son did .

jokes , no copyright protection .

this is research — ca n't buy it .

the next thing it hit , a year later , was critical mass . in this case , 20 percent is often a good proxy for critical mass in a household .

finally , empty space has a temperature .

this was a computer-assisted instruction system , which in those days ran on a computer named illiac .

on the contrary , imagine actually that you start from a document , a venetian manuscript , and you show , actually , what you can construct out of it , how it is decoded , how the context of that document can be recreated .

yeah ? okay ? cat , almost get his head . almost get his head .

we have much cleverer irrigation .

this is an area today that has very few regulations and even fewer rules .

so what will that tell us about the origin of life and the meaning of life ?

and if you 'll allow me to ascend to metaphorical heights , i will remind you that neural activity is the physical basis — or so neuroscientists think — of thoughts , feelings and perceptions .

so , i was able to sort of exercise all of that .

`` i used to work for an educational publisher , and as a writer , i was always told never to use stories or fun , engaging language , because then my work might not be viewed as `` '' serious '' '' and `` '' scientific . '' '' right ? i mean , because god forbid somebody have fun when they 're learning science . ''

merci . we have to prepare for the following performance , and i have a question for you , and the question is this : you show up in places like the ones you just have shown us , and you are carrying a camera and i assume that you are welcome but you are not always absolutely welcome .

but hannah riley bowles and emily amanatullah have discovered there 's one situation where women get the same outcomes as men and are just as ambitious .

it 's the same plot .

so we have two halves of one of the best kitchens in the world .

and it 's not just the breadth but the volume of reputation data out there that is staggering .

the economy needs them .

and then you add the owner of the company .

he was playing on the basketball team and making c 's and b 's .

i was a mess .

so we took it to the stanford synchrotron radiation laboratory in california , which is a particle accelerator .

we were seeking normal human brains .

we 're establishing important industry collaborations such as the one we have with a company that has expertise in large-scale digital manufacturing .

paper turned out to be much cheaper and more flexible as a way of programming the device .

we were sticking together .

you ca n't just drill a hole and pump it out .

cr : but it 's not only you 're talking about automated cars .

i also thought , how to close the building ?

they were just beyond our sights .

`` at some point you 're just going to be like , `` you know what ? there 's too much to know . screw it . '' ''

now , it is surprising , is n't it , that this would be the case .

the african risk capacity last year paid 26 million dollars to mauritania , senegal and niger .

they are totally real , some of them are very raw , and not one of them looks anything like this .

`` there goes high school reading lists , because we 're losing `` '' sound and the fury , '' '' we 're losing `` '' gatsby , '' '' `` '' sun also rises , '' '' we 're losing `` '' madame bovary , '' '' `` '' anna k. '' '' no jealousy , no proust . and now , i mean , i know it 's fashionable to say that proust has the answers to everything , but in the case of jealousy , he kind of does . ''

being in the dictionary is an artificial distinction .

but that means we are all also part of its solution .

this forming of the powerful attachment between child and parent provides the building blocks for physical , social , language , cognitive and psychomotor development .

still , today , armed with that knowledge that ordinary people in the community can be trained and , with sufficient supervision and support , can deliver a range of health care interventions effectively , perhaps that promise is within reach now .

his american interrogators described him as an amicable psychopath .

we then found corals that are of an intermediate age , and they show us that the ocean mixed partway through that climate transition .

briefly , it works like this .

they 're going to help us make , instead of one of these , millions of these chips , so that we can get them into the hands of as many researchers as possible .

so we were pretty reassured by this .

choose to see through them .

i have a son .

why ca n't we convert our anger for the larger good of society ?

once , though , he agreed to make false papers for someone you might recognize .

so to put that number in perspective , for andrew to reach that same size audience by teaching a stanford class , he would have to do that for 250 years .

they staged girls ' school theater .

`` hazel clausen is an anthropologist who took a sabbatical and decided , `` '' you know , i would learn a lot about culture if i created a culture that does n't exist from scratch . '' '' so that 's what she did . ''

thank you very much .

so , it 's hard to create a new meaning for the existing sign .

`` i need a fourfour . '' '' ( laughter ) thanks , mom . ''

it 's an interaction between volunteers , passionate inventors and technology , and it 's a story that many other blind people could tell .

the global perspective is that up to 30 percent of children in school have learning weaknesses that are not self-correcting , but with appropriate treatment , they can be screened for and detected and corrected and avoid their academic failure .

and more recently , even , we 've been able to launch into the market here in europe a flowable gel that is used for diabetic foot ulcers , that is now approved for use in the clinic .

and i think the key to that is self-assembly .

not only are you leaving a record for yourself on your machine , but you 're leaving a record on the person that you were lying to , and you 're also leaving them around for me to analyze with some computer algorithms .

but i also see lots of poverty , and it 's quite jarring , both in the scale and the scope of it .

because we do live in a world where shamans still sing to the spirits of the jungle , where rivers do boil and where legends do come to life .

now we make the nanopatch with a technique called deep reactive ion etching .

that means between now and late 2014 , we will generate as much information , in terms of gigabytes , as all of humanity has in all the previous millenia put together .

you 're less likely to have electricity and all the indoor activities that electricity makes possible , so you 're outside more .

the first project we asked students to learn is to make a circuit on paper .

ca : bruno bowden , who 's here , did that , broke the world record.em : congratulations .

`` my battery was dead . '' '' your battery was n't dead . ''

but somehow , we went back to business as usual .

so the first film i made was about banaz .

we now look at what i want to talk about tonight , in two ideas .

it 's a military operations on urbanized terrain site .

they are notorious for knocking off high-end designs and selling them at very low prices .

and if you look at a galaxy even farther away , it would be moving away faster .

the product is embedded in the larger system of the human body , and it works in complete harmony with that system , to create this unprecedented level of biological protection .

now do n't get me wrong — i would have loved to have won the lottery instead .

this is what it takes to breed bees in a lab .

'hi , ' i said , and then i returned to the couch , where i sat in silence for several moments .

so i built a model , a model of simulated meerkats crossing a simulated road .

and this outer layer , this is the vasculature , which is incredible , around a human brain .

why ? i had shown in the early 2000s that countries with a higher proportion of trustworthy people are more prosperous .

listen , my lab is not in the ear-manufacturing business .

on the one hand , we can choose between a new golden age where information is more universally available than it 's ever been in human history , where we all have the answers to our questions at our fingertips .

are there other people there ?

i 'd like to see it happen maybe a little bit in a bit of a missionary zeal , but that 's a very personal one .

so if we want to construct a time machine , we need two things .

and at each one of these stages , can be seen as a collision — a collision with something else — for example , a critical price-line that changes both the technology and also changes its effect on the world . it 's an inflection point .

we take a microscope slide .

and this has plunged journalism into crisis , forcing those institutions to reexamine how they function .

`` and `` '' olé ! '' '' to you , nonetheless . ''

you know , before this , a passion could come and hit you in the face , or maybe in your possible line of work , you might throw it away because you do n't have a way of identifying it .

we can step back out again and then reorganize the data by cause of death , seeing that circulatory diseases and cancer are the usual suspects , but not for everyone .

`` but let me give you an answer to this question , `` '' why bother ? '' '' that is maybe a little less spiritual and a bit more pointed . ''

the thing is , what most people do n't understand is that there are so many of us growing up in europe who are not free to be ourselves .

but in fact , yeah , it 's been a success , there 's lots of things , khan academy for crying out loud , there 's wikipedia , there 's a huge number of free e-books that you can read online , lots of wonderful things for education , things in many areas .

people go out and upgrade their toilet .

it 's a reminder that we can not get to the best possible outcomes for the totality of humanity without precisely this collaboration , this bringing together of the liminal , the differently lived , distinctly experienced and disparately impacted .

they dictate how much money our time is actually worth .

they even learn new words , in this case in american sign language .

so i want to extrapolate on this idea a bit with something that 's a little bit crazy .

you want to have nightmares and flashbacks of the thing that could kill you .

there was this guy steve , the i.t . guy .

it has to be that powerful .

it 's been fantastic .

and so you see one of our monkeys , mayday , up here doing this .

this is actually a picture of hal , my coauthor .

tedattendees , hyattlb . where do you think i 'm staying ?

so we start to use the data we have to run a very simple calculation that 's on all sorts of online calculators to get a sense of what the actual risk is .

how can an electric car that plugs into that electricity help ?

they were amazing — like you can see here .

in europe where taxes are in place , that 's the equivalent to a minus 60 dollar barrel .

but fear can be paralyzing or motivating .

about eight hours later , we found them browsing and teaching each other how to browse .

the big digital warhead — we had a shot at this by looking very closely at data and data structures .

thank you .

they strangle , they aspirate their vomit , they suffocate , they have a heart attack .

thank you .

i 'm the mexican in the family .

in fact in this country , no new nuclear power plant has been able to raise any private construction capital , despite seven years of 100-plus percent subsidies .

but historians do n't think that 's what happened .

but i also met aluminum mold makers , ammunition producers and all kinds of people .

so in orthodox jewish communities , every friday you go to a mikveh .

i ca n't see this clock and i ca n't see the timing , so holy god , woohoo ! ( laughter ) i might buy some more time .

( applause ) tom rielly : it 's an amazing story .

these little specks that you 're seeing in here , they 're galaxies .

thank you very much .

i 'm just going to make the whole thing myself .

they think it was an inside job by the bush administration .

so this was gender training .

indeed , if you can learn to use more soft power , you can save a lot on carrots and sticks .

this next project , this is by jaochim parisvega , and he 's interested in — he believes art is everywhere waiting — that it just needs a little bit of a push to happen .

each element is completely identical , and they 're biased .

so in a way , it is everybody 's business .

some people believe that there are a few people at the top of the fashion food chain who sort of dictate to us what we 're all going to wear , but if you talk to any designer at any level , including these high-end designers , they always say their main inspiration comes from the street : where people like you and me remix and match our own fashion looks .

those petals have to rotate into place .

we could n't solve this problem with 50 percent of the population on the sidelines .

( laughter ) because , i mean , let 's be real .

and finally , how much fun it would be to watch the flupsy parade and cheer on the oyster spats as they go down to the reef .

and they 'll vote for that .

this is a ubiquitous tool .

you do the same thing .

( aquatic noises ) so this video was taken at aquarius undersea laboratory four miles off the coast of key largo , about 60 feet below the surface .

`` `` not exactly . we 've all lined up backup jobs . '' ''

insects move around amazingly well .

♫ i got ta say it again ♫ ♫ if emma never rescued me ♫ ♫ i 'd be a corpse on the african plain ♫ is there anybody who 's here in the back , some love .

then there 's the danger .

you 'd be surprised how kids are affected by this .

wk : 12 watts .

you know , if i can make a difference , i hope to be able to make a difference .

`` `` '' pick-up '' '' is to pick someone up , but not just any picking up — it 's picking up chicks . ''

and it 's really in this combined way that you get an overall sense of what 's going on , because there 's a lot of complex things like medicaid and research money that flow across those boundaries .

and we know why kids drop out .

i think we can transform the driving experience by letting our cars talk to each other .

this means that there is no necessary connection between being highly intelligent in this sense , and having an objective that we humans would find worthwhile or meaningful .

chuck was 18 when we met , a senior in high school .

but that 's all about energy and industry .

`` the first is ludwig wittgenstein who said , `` '' i do n't know why we are here . ''

in other words , what if crispr also copied and pasted itself .

`` they asked me , `` '' please , make our story travel with you . '' '' so i did . that 's paris . ''

is that child my son ?

thank you .

they tried selling it as sexy . everyone bought it .

i wanted to have some type of impact . it did n't matter what it was .

then it was friends of friends .

instead , i was a very strong woman in love with a deeply troubled man , and i was the only person on earth who could help conor face his demons .

actually , i work for you . you pay my salary .

but it was n't going to happen anytime soon , and my rent needed paying .

but he keeps fighting .

we need it to develop technology .

perhaps reason is overrated .

by 2050 though , it could become efficient , connected and distributed with elegantly frugal autos , factories and buildings all relying on a modern , secure and resilient electricity system .

`` at the same time , we also had lots of parents , rich people , who had computers , and who used to tell me , `` '' you know , my son , i think he 's gifted , because he does wonderful things with computers . ''

and with his truck and his tattoos , he 's quite the opposite of her .

so i just need to hook you up .

we see people on our screens .

`` and it 's a very effective way of ending your hate mail : `` '' love markham , aged 4 . '' '' still works . ''

and i think the real challenge is to figure out where are the cases in our lives where conflicts of interest work on us , and try not to trust our own intuition to overcome it , but to try to do things that prevent us from falling prey to these behaviors , because we can create lots of undesirable circumstances .

my first trip in india , i was in a person 's home where they had dirt floors , no running water , no electricity , and that 's really what i see all over the world .

john herschel mapped the stars of the southern hemisphere , and , in his spare time , co-invented photography .

at the time , when i logged into social media , i started seeing more and more egyptians aspiring for political change in the country .

and so they took a bit of time to learn about that .

so babies that come out the regular way , all of their microbes are basically like the vaginal community , whereas babies that are delivered by c-section , all of their microbes instead look like skin .

they get the instant feedback , and this little green check mark that you see here is becoming somewhat of a cult symbol at edx .

trafficking has even been found in a hair braiding salon in new jersey .

in groups as large as 150 and as small as three , these young people discovered new places , new thoughts , new perspectives .

how to ensure our digital identities reflect our real world identities ? do we want them to be the same ?

now , computing is just one example .

or , if you 're carol , you could lure your ex-boyfriend into some empty parking lot where the police are waiting for him .

and since you do n't know me as the woman walking around ted in her underwear — ( laughter ) that means i found a few things .

remove the skin , you experience that person 's touch in your mind .

so maybe it 's time we got this back a little .

inside me was silence .

and right next to where i used to work , there was a slum .

a solar panel pays for itself in seven or eight years .

so it 's a special-interest writing system .

it 's crazy .

and it worked , or so i believed .

we know how to solve diarrhea and sanitation , but if you look at the budgets of countries , developing and developed , you 'll think there 's something wrong with the math , because you 'll expect absurdities like pakistan spending 47 times more on its military than it does on water and sanitation , even though 150,000 children die of diarrhea in pakistan every year .

let me introduce you to something i 've been working on .

what i learned from north idaho is the peculiar brand of paranoia that can permeate a community when so many cops and guns are around .

i do hope that some of you at least can hear the difference between those two .

or , i am exceptional , which means i 've had to leave the people i love behind .

it 's inherently a feeling of being broken when you go through it .

it 's a massive store of carbon , it 's an amazing store of biodiversity , but what people do n't really know is this also is a rain factory .

because you see , war is ours , as human beings .

it looks like i 've paused the program .

and the final point i want to make is that i think this project worked well because we engaged all the stakeholders that buy into this project and are important to consider in bringing the technology from inception of an idea through innovation , validation , commercialization and dissemination , and that cycle has to start and end with end users .

this was the estimate of the new survey .

the laas geel caves .

music goes straight to the emotional vein , into your bloodstream and right into your heart .

they looked like they had never been stressed at all , which is impossible .

but you ca n't fix what you ca n't define .

but it 's the greatest transfer of wealth , from one group to another in the history of mankind .

last i heard , there are two dozen universities in china right now teaching all in english .

so they 're going into convenience stores , stealing tide , and a $ 20 bottle of tide is equal to 10 dollars of crack cocaine or weed .

you know how you 've got 10 years where you 're demonstrating that reactor ?

but not anymore for some of us .

so we , in experiments , have administered testosterone to men .

today you can lay down — lie on your living room floor , sipping bourbon , and teach yourself any language that you want to with wonderful sets such as rosetta stone .

well , what i concluded from reviewing all these cases is that it is important that this happens only when death is instant and in a dramatic way and in the right position for copulation .

now , there was one small catch .

clearly the images kind of get that across .

and there i was crying away , and smash , bash on my rock .

but that does n't mean that we ca n't .

william was really difficult to talk to .

i saw the implications up front .

and we received israeli posters , israeli images , but also lots of comments , lots of messages from iran .

we have lost 25 percent of the unique species in hawaii in the last 20 years .

our community deserved a new way of doing things .

`` ( music : `` '' a clean break ( let 's work ) '' '' by talking heads ) so the nature of the room meant that words could be understood . ''

we found that most people knew they were not supposed to write their password down , and only 13 percent of them did , but disturbingly , 80 percent of people said they were reusing their password .

some of you may have used it before .

i think there is an alternative .

kevin had to cancel the cab and trudge out in the snow .

there 's nowhere to flush .

the thing that does n't make sense to us as much is that the universe , at early times , near the big bang , was also very , very smooth .

right now most people are thinking about sexting without really thinking about consent at all .

that 's how you think about security — in terms of the trade-off .

but the market also had bypassed low income farmers , because these systems were both too expensive , and they were constructed for fields that were too large .

there 's an unbelievable amount of know-how out there .

and so we know that , for example , openness and conscientiousness are very good predictors of life success , but the open people achieve that success through being audacious and , occasionally , odd .

( laughter ) and in that way we traded lore with each other .

for this work , last year , eric betzig won the nobel prize .

i mean , how do they form ? how do they operate ?

yet two of my biggest breaks came through the support of other women .

so just as we manage national parks , where we promote the growth of some species and we inhibit the growth of others , we 're working towards thinking about buildings using an ecosystem framework where we can promote the kinds of microbes that we want to have indoors .

but the fact that he was going to oklahoma in a plane , and he was going to bring me back a 10-gallon hat , just like ken maynard , my favorite cowboy wore .

`` i 'm an independent , individual person . '' '' what 's the difference between a sermon and our modern , secular mode of delivery , the lecture ? ''

and on guitar is my 14-year-old brother , tommy .

this is information that is incredibly powerful .

`` she had two sponges in her hand , and then she had two tied to her knees . my mother was completely absorbent . ( laughter ) and she would crawl around behind me going , `` who brings footprints into a building ? ! '' ''

one hundred years ago , i would have been treated like a vegetable .

their skirt was too short , their smile was too wide , their breath smelled of alcohol .

and a good example of how useful it can be but also how difficult was the egyptian revolution in 2011 .

we 're going to win this fight .

all my childhood , while my friends ' dads would tell them grimm 's fairy tales , my father would tell me stories about very unassuming heroes with unshakeable utopias who managed to make miracles .

unfortunately , there 's one group of people who get almost no systematic feedback to help them do their jobs better , and these people have one of the most important jobs in the world .

so next , the scientific method — an axiom of physics , of all science — says you can not prove a hypothesis through observation , you can only disprove it .

now we can extract its dna and read how cat fleas make the resilin , and clone it into a less-jumpy organism like a plant .

`` `` '' did you hear about eddie ? he died last week . ''

because it 's true .

first , i do n't have a mobile , so i 'm on the safe side .

and all the kids are thriving .

it used to be normal for people like you to own a home , and now it was n't .

it 's a triumph , in a way , of bourgeois values rather than aristocratic ones .

this empire is , in fact , the middle east as we now know it , and it 's what shapes the middle east as we now know it .

broadband is not necessary .

they exact a toll in missed opportunities and unrealized potential , and they engender insecurity and distrust where you seek fulfillment and connection .

and this is consistent across finland , the u.s .

their dna starts to synthesize new proteins , which spill out and interact with adjacent nerves , and they start releasing their neurotransmitters , and those neurotransmitters spill out and activate adjacent glial cells , and so on and so forth , until what we have is a positive feedback loop .

but a trained liespotter can spot a fake smile a mile away .

why did i take the risk ?

the results ?

can you find a way to live ?

te : nine years after the christmas dance , i was 25 years old , and headed straight for a nervous breakdown .

so you see the desire path .

the child 's daily contact with another human being is reduced to a few hurried minutes of feeding and changing , and otherwise their only stimulation is the ceiling , the walls or the bars of their cots .

and we found three .

and once again , it 's this invitation that asks people to lay down on the glacier and give it a hug .

ms : and measure . and what would you measure ?

going down there was like entering a time capsule , and i came out with a different sense of myself in time .

( applause ) that 's the cheese , just to show you .

we can do it at an affordable cost .

is anyone paying attention to some of the things these guys do ?

this year 's seniors will have 100 percent graduating high school .

we do this by thinking through our weeks before we are in them .

okay , now keep your eyes closed because , did you hear the difference ?

finally , psychopaths ' amygdalas are smaller than average by about 18 or 20 percent .

this , for me , is one of the very best images of space science i have ever seen .

it was the bedtime of my son , aboody .

this is where i come from , todmorden .

generalizing from small samples of data is the bread and butter of science .

the red dots are going to be cases of the flu , and the yellow dots are going to be friends of the people with the flu .

but let me give you a different perspective on the same story .

they 're not under nda either .

it had been growing at five percent per annum for the last one and a half decades , but this year 's forecast was three percent . why ?

why does this matter ?

and shelter and place . you want to move [ only ] crosswind for 1.2 miles .

so what is it that makes us different ?

why bother ?

`` the elders of the internet were willing to part with it for a short while , and she looks at it and she says , `` this is the internet ? the whole internet ? is it heavy ? '' ''

you probably think the picture on the left is male , the one on the right is female .

it could compute . it could n't just calculate . it could do more .

it 's a question that had been bothering me for going on two decades .

this is 600 billion dollars a year , and it 's growing , and these people are getting ripped off .

so it was in this environment that we began working .

so how would you run a whole country without oil ?

at the bottom of the reservoir is a special window .

( laughter ) when i was at school , the books were transcribed by transcribers , voluntary people who punched one dot at a time so i 'd have volumes to read , and that had been going on , mainly by women , since the late 19th century in this country , but it was the only way i could read .

but now , we have a different kind of comic .

once these roots are established , forest starts growing on the surface .

and he ca n't understand how this barbarism can be tolerated , and he vents his frustrations .

now , the other thing that fashion designers have done to survive in this culture of copying is they 've learned how to copy themselves .

so one thing we 've found is only about two percent of companies are able to effectively explore and exploit at the same time , in parallel .

march 17 through 21 .

how hard can this be ?

he 's a prisoner , just like jonah inside the whale .

actually , it 's happening now .

week two , national media .

every time i turned on the faucet , i was overwhelmed .

and lastly , the third , use plain words , those ones that grandma knows .

it 's my life .

for example , the dative construction in english .

they could go for dozens of kilometers safely without any risk in wonderful greenways , sort of bicycle highways , and i would invite you to imagine the following : a city in which every other street would be a street only for pedestrians and bicycles .

that 's what wired magazine spent on this .

that 's the beauty of randomization .

( applause )

linguists and cognitive scientists have been exploring this question for many years now .

`` if this , if that happens — `` '' i 've got lots of methods like that , but it 's very , very quick , and this is a third method . ''

so i do n't have time to play the entire thing for you , but i want to show you two short clips .

what do we mean when we say we 're doing math , or educating people to do math ?

i did n't just ride in the trucks now . i drove the trucks .

indeed , they sell books about potluck dinners .

we 're down to about two million hives of bees , we think .

all i know is how it felt to be the guy put out of work .

i 've worked in broadcast .

and i know when i say ferguson , many of you will think of police violence .

the third step was a challenge .

you 've got tummy tucks and you 've got this and you 've got that .

and that 's the good news i have . we can do that .

want to hide our soulful eccentricities and authenticity .

so for example , i pasted the photo of the minaret in switzerland a few weeks after they voted the law forbidding minarets in the country .

esther ?

`` the site was actually listed as a `` '' wonder of the world '' '' by national geographic . ''

we 'd like to understand that .

i knew if i did n't return to my body , i 'd have to leave this world forever .

2016 is the year of the monkey .

( applause )

i mean , just think about that .

so , having seen the impact of this , andrew and i decided that we needed to really try and scale this up , to bring the best quality education to as many people as we could .

it 's a moose trying to copulate with a bronze statue of a bison .

`` because i did n't think of that . ( laughter ) ( laughter ) ( applause ) because , you know , the one thing , one thing that you get with this disease , this one comes with a package , is you get a real sense of shame , because your friends go , `` '' oh come on , show me the lump , show me the x-rays , '' '' and of course you 've got nothing to show , so you 're , like , really disgusted with yourself because you 're thinking , `` i 'm not being carpet-bombed . i do n't live in a township . '' ''

it 's linked to practical virtues like generosity and hospitality and just being there , just showing up .

he got 44 for his own area .

so i got this ugly brown envelope with a c.d . inside .

but amid austerity and the financial crisis of 2008 , the concept disappeared almost without a trace .

suddenly , i had an episode of catastrophic bleeding .

and now , jenna is an actual , real person .

for one thing , it strikes hardest during harvest season , so exactly when farmers need to be out in the fields collecting their crops , they 're home sick with a fever .

so i 'm going to show you a number of projects that my colleagues and i at mit are working on to achieve this self-assembling future .

remember learning to drive ?

i 'm not a psychiatrist , a social worker or an expert in domestic violence .

and here 's what that means for us .

because the first why you always have a good answer for .

that 's what we do .

u.k.-based interflora monitored twitter for users who were having a bad day , and then sent them a free bouquet of flowers .

you 'd just have information come to you as you needed it .

this is picasso , of course embodying so much of it from the 20th century .

how should we work ?

the pain had spread from her wrist to her hands , to her fingertips , from her wrist up to her elbow , almost all the way to her shoulder .

so i continued honing my skills .

what on earth can we all do about this ?

and you would think she would take that money and put it back into her education .

`` but as they work together , something starts to change , and finally in `` '' the adventure of the six napoleons , '' '' once holmes comes in , dazzles everybody with his solution , lestrade turns to holmes and he says , `` '' we 're not jealous of you , mr . holmes . ''

but of course , you can not understand venice if you just look at the city .

and the world bank has acknowledged this and they 've started a project called waves — wealth accounting and valuation of ecosystem services .

how do we solve it ?

now , to tell the truth , in reality , the situation will be even more challenging .

`` we want peace . '' '' and i realized it had to come from the people . ''

and in the 2000s , over 7,000 .

i go to schools to talk to young , muslim girls so they do n't accept to be married against their will very young .

we 've got to give them all of these opportunities .

so this is a very proud owner of a beautiful dung ball .

since then , i 've made a career of painting people in water .

my face looked and felt like a mask .

second , preparing for heat and drought .

we need biofluorescence to show our true colors .

and it was a big christmas hit .

what we need are human-centered solutions .

i 'm not the devil .

one of those stretches lasted 45 days .

now behavior change is something that is a long-standing problem in medicine .

so here , we use discussion forums and discussions and facebook-like interaction not as a distraction , but to really help students learn .

and they apparently make sense .

now that 's a really serious problem .

because the problem is not sexting , the issue is digital privacy .

right ? well , actually , statistically speaking , if you only visit porn sites , you 're safer .

i guess he looked at all of us , as his hand hovered over the detonation switch .

this is a human issue which affects us all .

time and again , a thinker would lay out an argument as to why some practice was indefensible , irrational , inconsistent with values already held .

we all want respect for one another .

and these red dots show the most congested parts , which are the bridges that lead into the inner city .

( music ) give it another try .

most people fled abroad .

it only looks like nothing 's moving because , well , saturn here is 700,000 miles away , and titan here is 4,000 to 5,000 miles away .

after all , companies did n't stop polluting groundwater as a matter of course , or employing 10-year-olds as a matter of course , just because executives woke up one day and decided it was the right thing to do .

they like the generics .

so i wanted to seek this out further .

up until now , our communication with machines has always been limited to conscious and direct forms .

and i can send money around the world .

i brought some here , just so you could experience this .

`` and he said to me — i remember this like yesterday — he was a great guy , but he said to me , `` '' kid , go to school , or go open a falafel stand . ''

( laughter ) so i took on the tv accusatory judge thing that you 're supposed to do , and i asked her why she did that .

we 're all very , very familiar with the internet .

turns out that they had another idea behind it , even though this was — they were telling the public it was to save us .

and my hope is , if we can turn biology and medicine from these high-risk endeavors that are governed by chance and luck , and make them things that we win by skill and hard work , then that would be a great advance .

in one hand , i hold the power to accomplish anything .

i 'll just close by saying that the tools are there , and this is truly an unexplored , undiscovered continent .

and we think we 'll have the first fourth-generation fuels in about 18 months .

so that 's pretty much it .

babbage , of course , wanted to use proven technology , so steam and things .

`` i mean here was a girl who had never lived in peace time who somehow had come to sound like a candidate from `` '' the apprentice . '' '' ( laughter ) so i asked her , `` '' how in the world do you know this much about business ? ''

so in one sense you had the problem that language was n't fully ripe , if you like , neologisms were coming up , new expressions .

multinationals are protecting human rights .

jumping is another really interesting way to get around when you 're very small .

diarrheal diseases had been stuck .

and the really amazing thing is , because there were so many students , it means that even if a student posed a question at 3 o'clock in the morning , somewhere around the world , there would be somebody who was awake and working on the same problem .

he himself is saying that .

okay , good .

this is very significant .

fortunately for me , my parents were not poetic .

in fact , i am a data nerd .

life was almost unbearable .

i 'm playing around .

same month every year .

you ca n't see zoning and you ca n't feel zoning .

the upshot of this experiment was that fear was not really a primary driver of the behavior at all .

( laughter ) and as a result , i was sort of the deeply closeted kind of know-it-all for many years .

the couple is always only a man and a woman .

let 's give an example of where we think this is going to go .

and what we 're facing in africa is an unprecedented threat to human dignity and equality .

i want to make the case to you today that the world 's future depends on global citizens .

hold up , hold up , hold up .

they come to respect him .

it was a punishment for daring to challenge the society 's rules .

there are few more dips that happened , but for a couple of years , it was pretty quiet .

does n't everyone want more meaning in their lives ?

believe her .

and even in poughkeepsie , my hometown , we thought about old industrial infrastructure .

maybe i 'll get lucky and find easy prey .

second question : what causes these changes ?

and this shift is only going to accelerate with the emergence of the blockchain , the innovative ledger technology underpinning bitcoin .

within japan , by july , we 'd branched out to the neighboring town of rikuzentakata , further north to a town called yamada .

and i do n't know who 's watching who , but i have a suspicion that a lot of people are watching me .

but i had no idea that car was stopping , and i think we can do a lot better than that .

then one day he totally disappeared .

`` i watch that tv show 'lie to me . ' i know you 're lying . '' '' no , liespotters are armed with scientific knowledge of how to spot deception . ''

she was passionate about that goal and she was clear that she would let no army , no obstacle , no big institution stand in her way .

it 's given to you . it 's a gift .

thank you . ( applause ) ( applause )

she ca n't be bolder , he ca n't be gentler .

i 'm going to get on a stage and admit my daughter was clinging to my leg ?

where are we ?

but let me tell you a little bit about the other shift that i 'm talking about , which is power diffusion .

i walked in , sat down , took harold 's hand , took his wife 's hand and just breathed .

he 's doing some amazing work now with veterans coming back from iraq and afghanistan .

so from here , it 's pretty clear to me , we would prefer to have cleaner , cheaper , domestic , ours — and we have that , we have that — which is natural gas .

she started singing her song .

and i 'm sure the figures are similar in other countries .

she sent me this , which is hysterical .

i knew that the depth of field was 18 inches or less .

you can control your society .

well to start to do this , we took a 3d printer and we started to print our beakers and our test tubes on one side and then print the molecule at the same time on the other side and combine them together in what we call reactionware .

bg : question : you are stepping down from your job at the end of the year , after 10 years .

and let me repeat what you saw last year .

the first is the case of the military diary .

thank you very much .

so if you were watching this whole thing from a hill , ideally , far away , what you 'd see is a bright flash of light that would fade over a few seconds , followed by a blast wave spreading out , shredding trees and houses as it moves away from the stadium , and then eventually a mushroom cloud rising up over the ruined city . ( laughter ) so the major league baseball rules are a little bit hazy , but — ( laughter ) — under rule 6.02 and 5.09 , i think that in this situation , the batter would be considered hit by pitch and would be eligible to take first base ,

`` put a mouth on the top of the tree , that 's `` '' idiot . '' '' ( laughter ) easy to remember , since a talking tree is pretty idiotic . ''

now , the boy soon felt sorry , and they made up .

now , there is other origami in space .

the real hum is love-specific .

there 's figs and everything else there for the taking .

thank you .

you give him a chainsaw . you send him to joplin , missouri after a tornado , he regains that .

but it 's also going to create new , flexible forms of employment .

the hard — structure , processes , systems .

ian decided to move his lab into makeni , sierra leone .

that 's the financial crisis .

he told me not to tell anyone .

two years later , famine hit my country for the second time .

liberals will say you 're using religion and call you a bad conservative .

and everything i saw in the cultivation said there were huge fights amongst the foodies between the cultivators and the hunter-gatherers .

another way of putting it is that as we think of power in the 21st century , we want to get away from the idea that power 's always zero sum — my gain is your loss and vice versa .

and as a result , my photo library is a mess .

but that was the vision behind glass , and that 's why we 've created this form factor .

my motto was the less medicine , the less defective .

and he was leading his men down the streets of najaf — in iraq actually — and suddenly people were pouring out of the houses on either side of the road , screaming , yelling , furiously angry , and surrounded these very young troops who were completely terrified , did n't know what was going on , could n't speak arabic .

i think we have to do something about a piece of the culture of medicine that has to change .

the research showed , not surprisingly , we prefer people who are like us .

we started moving around the corridors of the u.n. system , governments and ngos , trying desperately to find somebody to come forward and have a go at it , see if we could make it possible .

go forward and the estimates that you have from the eia and onto the industry estimates — the industry knows what they 're talking about — we 've got 4,000 trillion cubic feet of natural gas that 's available to us .

( applause ) the other thing that religions know is we 're not just brains , we are also bodies .

i could n't be controlling the paint like i used to .

but then in the field of mathematics , as in so many of the fields that we 've heard from in this ted , the age of the computer goes along and things explode .

what if we take a new device and knock out the nerve vessels that help mediate blood pressure and in a single therapy to cure hypertension ?

those who embrace their roles and work to improve their performance grow , change and expand the self .

my dream is to build the world 's first underground park in new york city .

i want to show you now , to finish , just a few pictures that for me are very important in that direction .

and every morning at about the same time , cars roll of out their driveway , most of them , one person in the car , and they go to work , they go to their place of work .

as one example , in the brown layer there 's a certain type of cell called a langerhans cell — every square millimeter of our body is jammed full of those langerhans cells , those immune cells , and there 's others shown as well that we have n't stained in this image .

and also you want something that frees your eyes .

that is , how accurate we are in finding patterns .

there were less than one percent of all news stories in 2008 that went to the war in afghanistan .

i always like to say some of my best friends are extroverts , including my beloved husband .

that 's one of the things that is so extraordinary about fear .

from flaccid to ejaculation in less than a second .

but i think in my career that 's been a good thing .

arrested again , he was sent to detention for one day , and i was sent to jail .

so what once was a solution now became the problem , and ironically , we look for the solution in raw food .

so we investigated the role of social media and found the using social media produced a solid double-digit increase in oxytocin .

this box we 're in , the solar system is a box .

if you displace it , it ends up in the wrong place .

and one of the ways we can come across as an expert is by tapping into our passion .

in the center of this cloud , our sun formed and ignited .

enough real world examples helps .

in a martial art , you would practice the white belt skills as long as necessary , and only when you 've mastered it you would move on to become a yellow belt .

kids were dying of diarrhea and cholera .

but once a pair leaves the retail channel , it 's the wild west .

lots of tenderness , you understand .

it 's about each person coming to this platform , embracing it in their own way , and being significant in their own life .

for example , google announced last year that they had mapped every single location in france in two hours , and the way they did it was that they fed street view images into a deep learning algorithm to recognize and read street numbers .

and it did n't stop there .

i even saw a psychiatrist .

( applause )

that 's where the helium is .

we see it even in the life of the indomitable arctic explorer ben saunders , who tells me that his triumphs are not merely the result of a grand achievement , but of the propulsion of a lineage of near wins .

usually the killer is the brother or father or the uncle in the family .

and it 's pretty simple .

maybe .

and what i 'm most excited about about precision public health is bridging these two worlds .

a great editor saves a writer from her excesses .

this chart takes four different factors and says how much do they explain teaching quality .

and i finished high school .

it seems to shrink , but it often comes back .

and you 're nice . you say hi .

and it 's hard and it takes courage , but that 's why we 're alive , right ?

100 years ago in most countries in europe , the pressure was for the right to vote .

now , how about incentives ?

there is only one solution . it 's not that hard .

( applause )

but it really opened my eyes to how much of my life i spent just secluding away , be it email or social posts or whatnot , even though it was n't really — there 's nothing really that important or that pressing .

the curator had only one condition : i had to use the arabic script for my artwork .

kc : so i said at the beginning , if we ca n't see a problem , we ca n't fix a problem .

but resisting temptation is hard .

it needs months and years .

ignore those creeping fears that we have finally hit the wall .

as you see , it expands to the dark blue — that 's the annual ice in winter , and it contracts in summer .

but he went further .

thank you . ( applause )

so there it is , i 've said it again .

`` and `` beatjazzers '' become as common as d.j. 's . ''

so europe was able to truly expand under the g7 , but under the g-zero , europe will get smaller .

but the larger sense that we have of our lives , the slightly more abstract one , is indirect .

but if you look across these space types , you can see that they 're fundamentally different from one another .

a surgeon in new york can be helping a surgeon in amsterdam , for example .

so it took four years to take apart .

and so those coals that kept falling off the edge , we kept having to put them back up .

we use this in all sorts of weather conditions , very hot and very cold climates , very strong winds . they 're very sturdy vehicles .

this young woman wished for other things to happen , it happened for her .

and the thing is , is that this is n't google .

anyway , the american cities : lots of roads dispersed over large areas , almost no public transportation .

and to succeed we will all together need to help and push our politicians , because without that , real far-reaching , world-shifting change just is n't going to happen .

man , her office was packed .

i think this is what david deutsch meant in 2005 , when he ended his oxford tedtalk by saying he had two principles he 'd like to share for living , and he would like to carve them on stone tablets .

they do n't have to struggle for it like jacob wrestling through the night with the angel , or like jesus in his 40 days and nights in the wilderness , or like muhammad , not only that night on the mountain , but throughout his years as a prophet , with the koran constantly urging him not to despair , and condemning those who most loudly proclaim that they know everything there is to know and that they and they alone are right .

and they were worried that this might somehow interfere with their recovering from tuberculosis .

but the problem is this : how do we convey this information and instructions to a person who can not see fast enough and accurate enough so he can drive ?

rains all over the world . what do you see ?

and so i urge you , in whatever sector you work , in whatever job you do , to start thinking about how we might build solutions that start from the perspective of those we 're trying to help .

twitter was key to its organizing .

we hid behind cars , running through the darkness that lay between the streetlights , boundless laughter ubiquitous across the pavement .

i see no way around this difficult problem .

and it accelerates the amount and level of the stimulation .

there has been a 300 percent increase in crop production that requires bee pollination .

`` `` they 're going to be homophobic and sexist . '' ''

and at ted here in february , their passion and brilliance just took our breath away .

they affect all of us .

patrick .

if we add the matrix , if we add the structure language , which we have to learn , when we learn it , then we can put it back ; and around energy , we could generate a balance , which comes out from our really primordial operation : cooking .

so i thought , three words for one concept . this is not good .

and that 's when i realized what this was .

the aggregate numbers are absolutely overwhelming : 1.3 million people a week coming to town , decade after decade .

so , for example , we could use truckers ' purchases of fuel .

so right now , in this world , we think about data as being this curse .

( clang ) ( laughs ) now obviously , as maddie 's chemistry teacher , i love that she went home and continued to geek out about this kind of ridiculous demonstration that we did in class .

alright , one billion stars .

it 's a children 's book for the ipad .

but what if cats are hidden ?

there are fossils in amongst , and now i 've trained you to appreciate the fossil corals that are down there .

we are blind to the sea as a place of industry or of work .

`` `` '' all identity is experience , '' '' i thought . ''

they are doing tons of malaria research .

because the biggest dramatic change in shipping over the last 60 years , when most of the general public stopped noticing it , was something called an open registry , or a flag of convenience .

you 'd have to collect the samples and do some very intense taxonomy .

and i believe the answer is yes .

so as a result , the energy usage is very low , and it has the most advanced battery pack , and that 's what gives it the range that 's competitive , so you can actually have on the order of a 250-mile range .

i tried to right wrongs through power and aggression .

`` he looked at me in a knowing way , and said , `` '' elyn , you do n't really understand : these people are psychotic . ''

their countries are so different , and they merit to be recognized in the same way , as we do n't talk about europe as one place .

`` `` i 've talked to them too , and same story . '' ''

i was there covering the 25th anniversary of the world 's worst nuclear accident , as you can see by the look on my face , reluctantly so , but with good reason , because the nuclear fire that burned for 11 days back in 1986 released 400 times as much radiation as the bomb dropped on hiroshima , and the sarcophagus , which is the covering over reactor number four , which was hastily built 27 years ago , now sits cracked and rusted and leaking radiation .

that 's how it works . that 's why we do n't see the long lifespan , until we have the daf-2 mutant .

here 's the gowanus future with the oyster rafts on the shorelines — the flupsification of the gowanus .

so before i talk about this car for the blind , let me briefly tell you about another project that i worked on called the darpa urban challenge .

one was killing the mosquitos with ddt .

there 's a general principle here .

my work is not meant to hide the scars of war , but to show the full frame of unseen stories of gazans .

fungi multiplied . orchids emerged , genitalia shaped to lure insects ...

there are those who went back to their lives , and those who are still displaced after so many months .

the west , as i would see it , comes out of that decade weakened , because we did n't understand the group .

out of this rubble of haiti and from this devastation came something that we call tera — the trilogy emergency response application — which has been used to support the aid effort ever since .

and the kids are in groups that do n't have an age category , so the six-year-old kid who is ready for that with an 11-year-old , that eliminates all of the gangs and the groups and this stuff that we have in the schools , in general .

and for them it was not about politics , it was about serving with purpose .

our world is lit up 24 hours a day .

but it meant the most to jeannie .

at the time of my birth , blacks were not issued birth certificates , and that law only changed in 1973 .

race ca n't substitute for these important clinical measures without sacrificing patient well-being .

we need rich-world governments to be very generous in providing aid for these things .

i mean , what does somebody with all these outfits bring with her ?

there are thousands of pins in each floor .

the prize was a trip to new york city to meet big-time editors and agents and other authors .

the theory of evolution is telling us that this is an incorrect interpretation of our perceptions .

twenty-three percent of you have been to starbucks recently and used the wireless network .

given education has been calcified for 500 years , we really can not think about reengineering it , micromanaging it .

let 's talk about you .

so we decided not to throw the guy out and to rerun the experiment .

as you might know , a stroke is a brain injury .

i was a misfit .

and does it happen anywhere else ?

and yet , despite all of that darwinian evolution and natural selection , they 've been constrained to lie on a line .

it 's a bit like when i moved from new york to sydney .

here 's a slide of the first 1,000 digits of this prime .

regulation sounds great on paper , but politicians deliberately make regulation around the sex industry expensive and difficult to comply with .

and that technology is called the nanopatch .

you can not build further walls by fighting injustice with more prejudice , more hatred .

we built it at my home , which means that i got a little extra help from my three-year-old son ramon .

of course , when you digitize , that 's not enough , because these documents , most of them are in latin , in tuscan , in venetian dialect , so you need to transcribe them , to translate them in some cases , to index them , and this is obviously not easy .

this directive says that each phone company in europe , each internet service company all over europe , has to store a wide range of information about the users .

now thirdly , the task .

this means either more labor or more capital or more productivity .

cryptography is the study of how to secure communication , and it 's about two really important things : masking information so it can be hidden in plain sight , and verifying a piece of information 's source .

and that makes a difference .

so we paid people about 50 cents to create a password following our rules and answering a survey , and then we paid them again to come back two days later and log in using their password and answering another survey .

that approach is exactly what the pentagon is adopting for its own power supply .

this is much like the way that humans learn .

but polly had given me a very special gift : the knowledge that i was n't alone and the realization that abortion was something that we can talk about .

no , these legs are great .

`` and there is such a thing as international law , so there is no way you can say , `` '' i take 10,000 and that 's finished . '' '' i remind you of one thing : in turkey , at the beginning of the crisis , i remember one minister saying , `` turkey will be able to receive up to 100,000 people . '' ''

the larger point i 'm trying to make is this .

kepler was asking the wrong question .

education is more possible in the cities , and that changes the world .

he showed it to javier .

now , getting there is not easy .

so do n't do that .

`` now , for some of you , you 're going to say , `` '' oh my goodness , here we go again . ''

`` i mean how many times have i asked you , `` '' am i doing ok ? '' '' `` did i really screw up there ? '' ''

sir , what was the card ?

and john today is fully independent .

so he put the material in places where the birds were going to collect them , and they crafted his nests for him .

the lasers scan the environment to detect obstacles — a car approaching from the front , the back and also any obstacles that run into the roads , any obstacles around the vehicle .

eventually i got an interview .

part of the income for his farm .

it’s actually got a bunch of circles on it .

now what 's interesting is that we do a lot of work in information nowadays , and almost all of that is done in the language domain .

each time i get a wall in new york , i use his photos to continue spreading the project .

where did this guy get this confidence , the audacity of it ?

in mexico , nike has run a campaign recently called , literally , bid your sweat .

i do n't really believe it is .

it 's all inside of us .

there 's only one granny who manages health and safety .

( music ) okay .

but the more i wrote , and the more i practiced , the more i wanted to perform .

and i revisit this world thinking about the image or cliché about what we want to do , and what are the words , colloquialisms , that we have with the expressions .

i know they changed the lives of the people who live there , but they also changed new yorkers ' whole image of their city .

he knows , he sees the state of my leg , he knows that between him and i there is a crocodile , and i can tell you this man does n't slow down for one second .

we 're not supposed to walk on grass , because you could , you know , inadvertently kill some insects when you walk on grass .

we must be peculiarly self-obsessed to imagine that we have the power to drive tens of millions of people on the other side of the world to migrate and suffer in such terrible ways .

although it was pretty challenging , they learned a lot of new concepts in engineering and programming .

when we vote , even if it is in anger , we are part of a collective , creative leap of faith .

it 's usually some kind of choice between the vocational and the intellectual .

so all of these scores are made up of weather data .

many believe driving is an activity solely reserved for those who can see .

tickets were only 24 dollars back then .

`` and i asked her , `` '' what would happen if i was a member of the press ? '' '' and she told me , `` '' oh , look back there , '' '' and back a block was the press corps tied up in a little penned-in area , and i said , `` '' well , when do they go in ? '' '' and she said , `` '' probably never . '' '' and as i walked away from that , i had this crystallization , probably from the blow , because it was an insult in a way . ''

and putting on my georgetown uniform and going out there and knowing that , you know , in order to become better — and i 'm already the best in the country — you know , you have to train with people who are inherently better than you .

that has got to be stopped .

i 'm a himba and namibian .

ca : but you did n't accept that as the limit of what you could do .

your pupils dilate , your muscles contract , your spidey sense tingles , basically your whole body is trigger-happy . ( laughter ) that condition is not conducive to performing folk music . ( laughter )

and throughout european culture afterward , cyrus remained the model .

i avoided every science class i ever could .

now i want to tell you another story , but for this we have to travel from europe to the kalahari desert in south africa .

( applause )

sp : those words sound familiar .

my father was an academic , and we were in the uk through his work .

well , it 's cheap if you 're doing basic research and you 've got a lab .

but saying her name is not enough .

and you need some design to be successful .

dance really can make science easier to understand .

( applause )

burke county is one of the poorest districts in the fifth-poorest state in the country , and about 100 percent of donna 's students live at or below the poverty line .

in the future , we believe we 'll be able to make many nanobio building blocks that nature provided for us — collagen , nanocellulose , resilin and many more .

we have a severe problem in countries which are at a standstill .

when i was in high school , i got my first philips reel-to-reel tape recorder , and tape recorders became my sort of pre-computer medium of learning .

but these babies , of course , here stand in for groups of babies , and the differences you 're going to see represent average group differences in babies ' behavior across conditions .

i could be in the movement in a way that i was n't able to be in my real life , in myself .

i have .

and we need to train them right .

but some verbs are irregular .

( applause )

all those tumors have heavy bleeding during periods , abdominal pressure , back pain , frequent urination .

they just ca n't afford the energy for both a large body and a large number of neurons .

i have and i offer a gospel of doubt .

and guess what ? we need to .

one vendor will offer you fair trade organic cocaine .

we know that we can apply them in other neuropathological models , like parkinson 's disease , for example .

so what should we do now ?

there are no headstones and no graves in the typical sense .

it is the default option . we just believe .

we all have the opportunity to stop it , and we already all know how .

we have had cities for 8,000 years , and children could walk out of home and play .

these are things my kids do n't get .

the archimedes text is dark in one image and bright in another .

`` finally this guy comes out . he goes , `` hi , i 'm andrew , and i 'm going to take you flying . '' ''

with this knowledge , these teenagers as skaters confronted the city .

so why were n't we learning about her ?

and i 'll start out with a puzzle , the puzzle of indirect speech acts .

i can think of a million uses for a tool like this .

look no further than the insurance industry as they struggle to cope with mounting catastrophic losses from extreme weather events .

i want to give you an example .

should i wear my hair up or in a fro ?

it was the same subversive spirit that created this dance : the cakewalk , a dance that parodied the mannerisms of southern high society — a way for the enslaved to throw shade at the masters .

it 's about producing better , smarter products .

it 's like when i am trying to stand on one foot .

it uses the webcam .

when i get six- and seven-year-olds in a group , i have to figure out how to keep them quiet .

because once you put together trillions of atoms , that quantum weirdness just dissolves away .

now you also continue to watch as consciousness evolved to the point that here in india , in madhya pradesh , there 's one of the two oldest known pieces of rock art found .

if you have an undergraduate degree in physics , i would suggest — although i do n't , so maybe it 's not even true — but something close to that would allow you , with the information that 's currently available , to actually build a nuclear weapon .

it was complete chaos .

she played two varsity sports . she graduated as a valedictorian .

and as a result of that , i grew up with books everywhere around the house .

but in the developing world , things are quite different .

no , i do n't think so .

in the sky , they look like this .

so she made this project for my birthday and sent me a happy birthday scratch card .

conflict is frequent because candor is safe .

if i project that , that would make me think that i would live until 120 if i do n't crash on my motorbike .

it was about space and light .

this may be surprising .

but that was never tried .

but as they did — a tragic twist .

tk : well , look , i think the first part is it 's going to take — it 's likely going to take a lot longer than i think some of the hype or media might expect .

so actually , in the early days , back when it was the arpanet , there were actually times — there was a particular time it failed completely because one single message processor actually got a bug in it .

i have an aunt who is a wonderful storyteller .

i 'm stylin ' , smilin ' , lookin ' real mean , because it ai n't about being heard , just being seen .

then in early 2007 , a really interesting thing happened .

by day , they hop freight trains , stick out their thumbs , and ride the highways with anyone from truckers to soccer moms .

it 's seen as hypocrisy .

( applause ) thank you .

it 's keeping the lights on .

i was 18 .

this is a world that 's going to exist , and for good reason .

did they find multiple ways to explain an idea ?

the image is terrifying , but you quickly come to understand it 's not real .

it looks very much like the apollo pictures that are very well known .

and it cleverly leverages diversity by having not just leukocytes but b cells , t cells , natural killer cells , antibodies .

and it slams together deuterium , which is just hydrogen with an extra neutron in it .

`` and by the way , in order to actually do this activity , here are things that you can use from your immediate environment , whether it be the garden outside or the classroom inside , which can be used as learning aids for kids . '' '' and we see teachers all over haryana using lots of innovative things to be able to teach students . ''

perspective , that kind of alchemy we humans get to play with , turning anguish into a flower .

and since then , we 've taken 7.9 million miles off the roads and we 've taken 1.4 thousand metric tons of co2 out of the air .

and i was sitting in a hallway one night and a couple girls came up to me .

as a child , i would hate being made to wear the indian kurta pajama , because i did n't think it was very cool .

i was accepted to pepperdine university , and i came back to the same school that i attended to be a special ed assistant .

and that scares a lot of people .

and they 're trying to do that .

but what if you could capture more than one moment in a photograph ?

in particular , traditional optical character recognition method that can be used for printed manuscripts , they do not work well on the handwritten document .

`` he did not speak about rice , in india . he said , `` '' to those who have to go without two meals a day , god can only appear as bread . '' '' and so as i 'm finishing my bread here — and i 've been baking it , and i 'll try not to burn my hands . ''

ss : are you a different height ?

i want to salute the 100,000 ships that are at sea that are doing that work , coming in and out every day , bringing us what we need .

and you 'll see there are all these filaments and structures and voids .

they were so used to looking at it from the perspective of this one disease , they could not see the larger implications for another disease .

i mean , who can remember what they said a year ago ?

behind us lay an unbroken ski trail of nearly 1,800 miles .

`` i 've been seeing it around me the last few days . '' '' so that 's a really symbolic pasting , because that 's the first one we did that you could n't see from the city . ''

but a lot of times , whole categories of innovation — ones that can help us live more beautifully — turn out to be illegal .

this is the other side of that same picture .

love is about dissolving walls .

there 's a giant maze , and joey 's sitting there , and the maze is moving when you tilt the tablet .

`` people in syria are suffering — we must welcome them in . '' '' and it 's a beautiful thing . ''

charles babbage , i think known to most tedsters , invented the first mechanical calculator and the first prototype of a modern computer .

in addition to that , it can also screen areas for privacy , so that it can differentiate from some of the public areas in the space during different times of day .

discover that , live it , not just for you , but for everybody around you , because that is what starts to change the world .

and how do you bring those two things together ?

i have always regarded myself much like anyone else who navigates the dark unknowns of their own challenges .

in other words , my value was once ensured by submitting myself to the traditional authorities .

it 's worth noticing that a non-state actor attacking the united states in 2001 killed more americans than the government of japan did in 1941 .

starvation was being used as a weapon of mass destruction — primitive but extremely effective .

but if you 're boltzmann , you know that if you wait long enough , the random fluctuations of those molecules will occasionally bring them into lower entropy configurations .

they 've crossed a brain threshold much earlier , that perhaps not at age 22 or 20 , but even by age 15 or 16 you can begin to see the trajectory for development is quite different at the level of the brain , not at the level of behavior .

`` and when i asked her why no pictures , she said , `` it 's a crime scene . no photographs allowed . '' ''

we know that a million and a half children die a year from diarrhea and a lot of it is because of open defecation .

the presentations were all very exciting and very promising ; they have multiple reactors that they 're working on .

these are not trivial questions , and there are scientists that are trying to solve them , and they will eventually , hopefully , be solved .

i promise she read that text .

but the thing is , there is n't actually a standard measure of entropy .

so the way many cons work is not that the conman gets the victim to trust him , it 's that he shows he trusts the victim .

so me and my group , l.a. green grounds , we got together and we started planting my food forest , fruit trees , you know , the whole nine , vegetables .

for example , it 's said that there are more people in india with access to cell phones than toilets .

and you can see here , we can actually visualize a single white blood cell .

despite all of these similarities , we see huge differences in savings behavior .

there are also a number of features that vary between continents like that that have to do with how we metabolize food that we ingest , or that have to do with how our immune systems deal with microbes that try to invade our bodies .

and when we get access to them , we are blown away , we fall in love .

`` fortunately in 2006 , congress passed the pet evacuation and transportation standards act ( laughter ) — it spells `` '' pets '' '' — to change that . ''

let 's then look at the morpho butterfly , an example of an invisible technological competence of life , which is at the very heart of our possibility of surviving on this planet , and let 's zoom in on it . again , hubble is there .

however , acting majors are not supposed to act .

we all want affirmations that our lives have meaning .

you 're saying that you can trust yourself to handle life 's challenges .

thank you .

last story , a few years ago , a friend of mine gave birth .

in denmark , we will drive all the cars in denmark from windmills , not from oil .

but these were not the major preoccupations of my day .

so that , if somebody can fake sincerity , if they can fake passion , they stand a better chance of being selected in that way , which seems a little dangerous .

`` `` +2 '' said , `` i ai n't all bad . '' ''

the other point that 's worth noticing is how one-dimensional this projection is .

so our way to solve this is to build the space of words .

sacrifice your ego .

as a profession , we have to stop this . the science is clear .

i give it its due .

what are my options ? what choices are now on the table ?

there are 100,000 there . it would take you all day .

a second , of course , is that , for some people , these become truly disabling , and it 's about four to five percent , perhaps one in 20 .

but when i think about cities , i think about people .

there 's another tool that can do that , and we all have it , and that tool is the brain .

once in his office , i sat on his couch , folded over , and began muttering .

our culture is obsessed with perfection and with hiding problems .

he would design his own gear , make his own cameras , and he was fascinated with the seahorse , hippocampus erectus , and he filmed for the first time the seahorse giving birth .

what if , actually , engagement on poverty and injustice is exactly what the terrorists wanted us to do ?

this is not uncommon .

same sort of drill . so : one , two , three , go .

instead of just coming out of the prison with 46 pounds in their pocket , half of them not knowing where they 're spending their first night out of jail , actually , someone meets them in prison , learns about their issues , meets them at the gate , takes them through to somewhere to stay , connects them to benefits , connects them to employment , drug rehabilitation , mental health , whatever 's needed .

in fact , i do n't know if it 's an exaggeration to say that if we did n't have jealousy , would we even have literature ?

( applause )

surgeons are not made either .

the workers i got to know had a curiously abstract relationship with the product of their labor .

but what if we applied a precision public health approach ?

we 're all teachers . we know learning is ugly .

but the ironic thing is that bees are not out there pollinating our food intentionally .

and then i 'll draw the connection between these two behaviors .

earn me , learn me , scan me , squint through your lens .

this is a difficult , unstable binary .

we are the soil .

it 's completely free to download this application .

and the nearest star is 4.2 light years away , which means its light takes 4.2 years to get here .

i do n't mean they do n't deserve attention .

and in 2009 , change has come to washington , with a promise to put science in its rightful position .

here are three sets of firing patterns . the top one is from a normal animal , the middle one is from a blind animal that 's been treated with this encoder-transducer device , and the bottom one is from a blind animal treated with a standard prosthetic .

so we did this , and we collected 5,000 passwords , and we gave people a bunch of different policies to create passwords with .

and above all , we have to engage our young people .

the net of spies was really broad .

might it be the discovery of a distant civilization and our common cosmic origins that finally drives home the message of the bond among all humans ?

voice 17 : the twin towers . voice 18 : the twin towers .

hurt , sadness and anger flooded through me .

mohammed , like so many other survivors all around the world , had to live through the horrifying repercussions of cluster munitions on a daily basis .

the bone is cracked .

and the problem of poverty is not like that .

with enough practice , those recalibrations stick .

i 'd like those of you who are able to join us in saying these names as loud as you can , randomly , disorderly .

meteorites delivered chemistry , and perhaps membranes , too .

i had spent 15 years in anglican schools , so i had had enough hymnals and crosses to last me a lifetime .

( applause )

they might like that . what about a saturday ?

and i tried , and i made it .

we create financial markets that are super complex .

but they want it to be easy , affordable and attractive , and they expect business to help , and they 're a little bit disappointed today .

i grew up with a mom who taught me this day-in and day-out .

which is a feel-good , calming , stress-reducing hormone .

so , response planning in the twenty-first century is both possible and is essential .

and it 's written , as we 'll see in due course , by very skilled p.r . consultants .

it 's a pleasure to be here in edinburgh , scotland , the birthplace of the needle and syringe .

so we basically turned the box into a bubble .

now of course , there 's a bunch of effects that this culture of copying has on the creative process .

when it was uncovered , it ushered in a new era of streamlined , archaically futuristic design called googie , which came to be synonymous with the jet age , a misnomer .

and the blue side , the compliment , faces the other way .

it 's called the blockchain . blockchain .

during this chapter one , there was a high level of public awareness about the potential of nuclear catastrophe , and an indelible image was implanted in our collective minds that , in fact , a nuclear holocaust would be absolutely globally destructive and could , in some ways , mean the end of civilization as we know it .

`` the word `` '' hobo '' '' conjures up an old black and white image of a weathered old man covered in coal , legs dangling out of a boxcar , but these photographs are in color , and they portray a community swirling across the country , fiercely alive and creatively free , seeing sides of america that no one else gets to see . ''

wk : yeah .

we have this war with iran coming for 10 years now , and we have people , you know , afraid .

it pretends we can isolate ourselves and our nations from one another .

you need to somehow find the fitness function .

you probably saw it on the news .

but also , we 're now working on using these same tools to come up with instant sets of vaccines .

so when the echo of the gunshots had lingered , it was soon drowned by the chanting of the mob , and i did n't believe what i was hearing .

we deprive nature of its technology .

ultimately , we have to recognize that ideology is the enemy of growth .

we sign with a major label .

i figured out their bios , their passions in life and their art styles , and i started making their work .

they found the people and they prevented more infections .

and that copernican revolution continues today to influence science and philosophy and technology and theology .

so you do n't have to make signs for all of your employees to wear around the office .

there 's simply no privacy .

it was there i became friends with sonny boy , who lived on what was literally a pile of steaming garbage .

so this year 's kind of done , but i want you to pretend it 's the end of next year , and it has been an absolutely amazing year for you and the people you care about .

we can reconcile .

it seems to treat jealousy as a problem of geometry , not emotion .

this is the ministry of justice .

it 's very different than most other cultures . all right ?

but we only need to replace them once .

it 's communicating in a simple and clear way , enabling our reader to understand it at first glance .

we live in a dangerous time in a dangerous world , and there really are bad people out there .

now , i 'm an infectious disease epidemiologist by training .

now how do we get to augmented reality ?

and this takes the long-term steady courage of the day-in day-out struggle to educate , to persuade and to win acceptance .

so we are speaking about transformation , transformation in rural areas .

and there 's another cognitive bias i 'll call confirmation bias , where we tend to accept data that confirms our beliefs and reject data that contradicts our beliefs .

you see this object here .

no one knows if he got to the top . it 's still a mystery .

and just like that , another of their decisions was to keep me and my siblings connected to our roots .

now , i 'm older , and my youthful looks might belie that , but i 'm not in the millennial generation .

we need to face our fears and take back our streets , our cities , our neighborhoods .

( laughter ) video : actor : clean coal — you 've heard a lot about it .

the other one is the rewilding of human life .

i get it that people were angry at the terrorists .

and incidentally , that means that people do n't like us . right ?

and we 've got such a long way to go with this .

i 've got no bodyguards , i 've got no police cars . i 've got nothing .

healthcare is changing in the same way .

it 's not fair to students , and it 's putting america 's global leadership at risk .

maybe i should register a few extras just in case .

our lives , our dreams , our future does not belong to us , it belongs to our parents and their community .

what about people with disabilities or who need assistance in there ?

but i 'm curious . if you had a minute , say , with apple 's head of manufacturing , what would you say ?

so maybe he 's a little bit lazy , but he 's there , he 's taking care of the building .

you 're also running a civil society .

the complexity here is unbelievable .

with shovels in hand , they started to dig .

in our collective conscience , in a really primal way , we know we ca n't afford to lose bees .

and all around the world are not exceptions .

my office was just a few blocks away .

`` that 'd be like trying to put a square peg through a round hole . '' '' now i was n't trying to be smart . ''

and we were really optimistic that we could find something because there had been a report of a long-lived mutant .

and by the way , she was also very insistent on being able to change the color , an important feature for this demonstration .

isabel wijsen : a green paradise .

i think it 's the most technologically literate thing that we have , and i 'm absolutely obsessed with finding a way of communicating ideas through the body to audiences that might move them , touch them , help them think differently about things .

but on the other hand , if you start measuring , how much would it actually cost to restore the land of the shrimp farm back to productive use ?

models are not static .

it 's like someone who has a serious illness and pretends it 's the flu and it will just go away .

exploration is about coming up with what 's new .

so i 'm going to shoot all the people i know , if they want , and i 'm going to put them in a poster and i 'm going to share them .

this is a big fibroid .

they would bring prosperity , security , overcome sectarian violence , ensure that states would never again harbor terrorists .

and he would have tremendous fun doing that .

we need to do simulations , germ games , not war games , so that we see where the holes are .

quantum biology is about looking for the non-trivial — the counterintuitive ideas in quantum mechanics — and to see if they do , indeed , play an important role in describing the processes of life .

you have the surface barrier of the human skin , you have the very rapidly reacting innate immune system and then you have the highly targeted adaptive immune system .

and you know what ? she 's not standing still .

thank you .

the friends of randomly chosen people have higher degree , and are more central than the random people themselves .

( bugle sound ) there 's a movement going on right now to reframe mental illness as a positive — at least the hypomanic edge part of it .

and my voice is the one that 's going to teach you about the inside of mother earth .

if you added up all the human beings , we would weigh 10 times as much as all the wild mammals put together .

we walked out of africa two times .

every meal you eat contains ingredients from all across the world .

i put photography as my life .

or just to really prove a point , we can launch programs like my personal favorite , the windows calculator .

when you 're faced with brutality , whether it 's a child facing a bully on a playground or domestic violence — or , on the streets of syria today , facing tanks and shrapnel , what 's the most effective thing to do ?

the fabric of our cities is reflected in the fabric of our souls .

he got the right apgar index .

we whose kids have plenty to eat .

what i love is that it lets you take some things that you know , and just by moving symbols around on a piece of paper , find out something that you did n't know that 's very surprising .

( applause )

on land , life turned a corner . jaws formed first ; teeth came later .

i think we would like for dispensing errors to be zero , would n't we ? and yet , as noise levels go up , so do the errors in dispensing made by the staff in hospitals .

during the blitz in london , admissions to psychiatric wards went down during the bombings .

so the question is , what is invisible ?

it could be that on one day , the colony is split between two boxes , but on another day , it could be together in a single box , or split between three or more boxes , and that all seems rather erratic , really .

( applause ) because windows and files have a position in the real space , selecting them is as easy as grabbing a book off your shelf .

so you may think that the privileging of work over family is only an american problem .

muslims against muslims .

reclaiming yourself can be one of the most gorgeous acts of self-love and can look like a million different things , from hairstyles to tattoos to body contouring to hormones to surgery and yes , even weight loss .

and i became a learner , because i found myself in a community of learners .

and two , it has be more affordable than today 's cars .

that 's not that hard .

now look at what’s happened in the last 10 years .

as it comes out of the grinder , you just have a little tray , and you just take it off in little passes , build it up , slice it vertically .

she 's very fabulous .

thank you .

`` we think the entire tumor is out . '' '' but very often several days later , the patient 's gone home , we get a phone call : `` '' i 'm sorry , once we looked at the final pathology , once we looked at the final specimen , we actually found that there 's a couple other spots where the margins are positive . ''

i saw one study that compared women in nigeria , one of the most chaotic and violent and corrupt and poorest countries in africa , to women in north america .

so how can we find a method that will harness this ?

now , this idea was tested in 1919 through astronomical observations .

if you go forward the next 10 years and cap the price of oil at 100 dollars a barrel , you will pay 2.2 trillion .

so many diseases were once thought of as psychological until science uncovered their biological mechanisms .

it 's an awful lot of fun .

you can see an image of one of these corals behind me .

so he was using social media in private .

she has been a widow for nine years , but she 's not looking for another mate .

the cooperative children 's book center did a review of nearly 4,000 books and found that only three percent were about african-americans .

he rides his horse to their mountain cabin regularly .

i mean , it was so incredibly close .

they 're flower-feeders , and as they move from flower to flower , basically on a shopping trip at the local floral mart , they end up providing this valuable pollination service .

`` it was a really incredible thing that when we landed there , i was talking to various people , and they were saying to me , `` '' you 've got to get everybody involved here . ''

( laughter ) here 's me , just so we 're even .

last year however , this fight became much more personal when my wife was diagnosed with breast cancer .

once the animal knows this , we make the task a bit more difficult .

`` so rather than asking , as precaution would demand , what can we do as quickly as possible to avoid potential catastrophe , we ask bizarre questions like this : `` '' what is the latest possible moment we can wait before we begin seriously lowering emissions ? ''

something universal is going on .

and we need to view this , then , as the ultimate deterrent — something we make sure is available , but at the same time , praying we never have to use it .

then if you look around you in the bathroom , you see lots more products like shampoo , conditioner , anti-wrinkle cream , body lotion , but also toothpaste .

no , i gave it up for adoption so it could have a decent life , and then they would n't let me back into the convent .

cities are the crucible of civilization .

do you want to keep it all , or do you want to send some amount back ?

imagine our economy when the carbon bubble bursts , when the financial markets recognize that , to have any hope of preventing the climate spiraling out of control , the oil and coal industries are finished .

what sounds like faith , soft faith , may actually be fact , because the surprising truth — i mean , there are no studies , but the truth seems to be that these women who returned to their homes and have lived on some of the most radioactive land on earth for the last 27 years , have actually outlived their counterparts who accepted relocation , by some estimates up to 10 years .

prohibition barely makes a difference to the amount of people actually doing those things .

and i believed i could do it .

we can not see them with our naked eye .

so , everybody ready ? ok ? off you go .

all brazil was shocked .

did it strike you ?

it 's a model we built for bali .

at five years old , i thought everyone was just like me .

i grew up in the paris suburbs and i was the youngest of three children .

we all go back so far , and in this present moment , on this day , all the people you meet , all that life from generations and from so many places all over the world flows together and meets you here like a life-giving water , if you only open your heart and drink .

and he despised it from the bottom of his heart .

but it can be healed .

shame can not survive empathy .

i was faced with an organized defamation campaign in the local media combined with false rumors shared in family gatherings , in the streets and in schools .

it actually has a level of dexterity in its penis much akin to what we have with our hands .

that 's because most people think architects design buildings and cities , but what we really design are relationships , because cities are about people .

so the first thing you 're going to see is the normal worm when it 's about college student age — a young adult .

let 's start with the definition of schizophrenia .

they do n't have meaning . we do .

( applause )

he was on coumadin .

this was one of those scenes .

boom , we get planets orbiting about it .

and switching from the old fire to the new fire means changing two big stories about oil and electricity , each of which puts two-fifths of the fossil carbon in the air .

with a little practice , i became good enough with this interface to drive around my home on my own .

boy : i would love to .

anyway , this is a lady creature .

so we went there with a truck . this is a photobooth truck .

and people simply do not have enough to survive .

she got her toilet , and now she goes around all the other villages in india persuading other women to do the same thing .

( laughter ) would there be time to be able to work with it ?

it should n't take away from other things .

but i did know the game was up .

so let me come back , with this sense of hope , to the two billion people still trying to live each day on less than the price of a skinny latte from the cafe next door .

so when we take someone 's perspective , it allows us to be ambitious and assertive , but still be likable .

i looked at his throat , it was a little bit pink .

it 's a wonderful waste disposal device .

that 's why it works as an empathy machine .

there , we met maría rachid .

( laughter ) kenya is a country where you are guilty until proven rich . ( laughter )

it 's about an m.p . called geoffrey dickens .

( laughter ) see , many of us will agree that lots of governments are unhealthy today . ( laughter )

`` you ca n't just go off and create a designer baby . '' '' and in fact , to some extent , you 're right . ''

the problem is that digital technology has completely subverted the logic of this physically fixed , expression versus idea concept .

you see how this works , right ?

the conversations about health were lengthy and deep .

so i want to talk about that as an opportunity that we really have failed to engage with very well in this country and , in fact , worldwide .

consider our neighbor , mars .

but the question was how we could do a multistory , contemporary building with these principles .

today , what many of us would love to believe is that the internet is a private place ; it 's not .

rng : the appeal to religion to justify the otherwise unjustifiable , such as the ban on contraception .

and stop with the labels , the limiting .

geron , just last year , started the first trial using human embryonic stem cells to treat spinal cord injuries .

it 's as though mexico and canada were hostile neighbors to the united states , which they 're not .

i think there 's nothing like a crisis to tell you what 's really important and what 's not , and sandy made me realize that our devices and their connectivity matter to us right up there with food and shelter .

actually , what happens is that a very intricate structure appears .

they are acting in the sense that they 're emulating the original mashup .

without both elements you have no support .

i 'm really blessed to be a parent , and watching my children grow , i really firmly believe that you 're born with a temperament and you 're wired a certain way , and you do n't have any say about it , and there 's no changing it .

so once a double-stranded break is made in dna , we can induce repair , and thereby potentially achieve astounding things , like being able to correct mutations that cause sickle cell anemia or cause huntington 's disease .

your stress response wants to make sure you notice when someone else in your life is struggling so that you can support each other .

why did you bring this up ?

they make human efforts derail .

so we need to do more than just say long passwords .

thank you .

i am productive .

and the way i like to describe it is it 's kind of like a math professor .

imagine a long list with , say , 250 facts .

`` this is the point when people started asking me , `` andrew , can you make body parts out of apples ? '' ''

and then the next thing we do is we put a dot in the center of the circle .

like any form of systematic oppression , fatphobia is deeply rooted in complex structures like capitalism , patriarchy and racism , and that can make it really difficult to see , let alone challenge .

i did n't think much about it .

so apparently , i 've got a pretty bold voice .

you can see the difference .

and then when we finally have time , we have neither the money nor the health .

there are moments in history when civilization redefines itself .

and surely , if you 're reading a poem that mentions a cow , you do n't need on the facing page a drawing of a cow .

although you 're looking for a drug that can solve aging in old men like me , what you could do now pretty well in the lab , if you were allowed ethically , is start a human life from scratch with altered genes that would make it live for a lot longer ?

what it means is , when she sat in a restaurant in years to come , 10 years to come , 15 years to come , or she 's on the beach , every so often she 's going to start rubbing her skin , and out of there will come a piece of that shrapnel .

so here the left and right channel stay in sync , but if we want to , we can override that by grabbing both of them at the same time .

my dad is white from cornwall , and my mom is black from zimbabwe .

to believe that it 's possible to build a society without fossil fuels ?

and she had come to washington , not seeking a handout and not seeking a microloan .

( applause ) chris anderson : thank you so much .

but when we look today in wonder and disgust , maybe , at the metropolis sprawl before us , we wonder if we 're stuck .

in those times documents had hard covers , they were filled in by hand , and they stated your job .

what most people know but do n't realize they know is that the world is almost entirely solar-powered already .

the savings ratio , net savings , were below zero in the middle of 2008 , just before the crash .

it is merely what we find legally tolerable .

again , the same thing with coding .

some of what we fear , i suspect , we fear in common .

i learned about the haiti earthquake by skype .

so let 's watch it . we 'll go back , and i 'll show you how we made it .

but it just requires now an investment of resources and transfer of expertise .

time is unstoppable , and it transforms the event .

when she told me this , i fell to my knees .

and shortly after the election and the outbreak of violence , the government suddenly imposed a significant media blackout .

but now that we 've been given media tools — the internet , mobile phones — that let us do more than consume , what we 're seeing is that people were n't couch potatoes because we liked to be .

the kids love it .

so it was the need and the people we saw in the early '90s — that 's what made us go back and work for them .

it 's a little older than ted .

and in the process , of course , we wanted people to know everything , and we wanted to be truly democratic about the way we ran things .

if you go back in time about [ 75,000 ] to 100,000 years ago , let 's look at human evolution , it turns out that something very important happened around 75,000 years ago .

third , you reward effort .

( laughter ) at the end of the course , the students got a certificate .

so insects , just for free , contribute to the economy of the united states with about the same order of magnitude , just for free , without everyone knowing .

but recent observations have changed all that .

four years ago , tech bloggers and entrepreneurs joel spolsky and jeff atwood , decided to start something called stack overflow .

you practice ancient balinese arts .

you can go one step beyond and actually create a simulation system , create a mediterranean simulator which is capable actually of reconstructing even the information we are missing , which would enable us to have questions you could ask like if you were using a route planner .

you want a cigarette in prison ? three to five dollars .

if you 're not good in 90 days , you 're out .

the answer to such a question is as varied as the people that take to the road , but travelers often respond with a single word : freedom .

we looked at open-source data and mapped the entirety of looting across egypt from 2002 to 2013 .

first of all , i have to say i 'm not from around here .

and it 's as easy as shooting fish in a barrel .

they set them up as what they called micro-distribution centers , and those local entrepreneurs then hire sales people , who go out with bicycles and pushcarts and wheelbarrows to sell the product .

that 's basically , if you hold two fists together , it 's just slightly larger than the two fists .

thelma nichols : inmate number 0b2472 .

and 1298 ambulances decided that it was going to reinvent a completely broken industry , building an ambulance service in bombay that would use the technology of google earth , a sliding scale pricing system so that all people could have access , and a severe and public decision not to engage in any form of corruption .

and we have decided , therefore , that the best thing that we could do with our data is to ensure universal access to it .

so people there are eating them , not because they 're hungry , but because they think it 's a delicacy .

it started to become fun and second nature .

that is , it can give you expanding returns , not diminishing returns .

thank you .

the various pictures here of the various elements of the picture — the whole thing is unstructured .

we moved from that to becoming farmers and cultivators of information .

which is right ?

and that 's because we grew human cells into it .

my crew is laughing at me because i 'm wearing old gear .

if you 're in the military and you 're in a lot of combat , you 're no more likely to kill yourself than if you were n't .

but i 've got a couple other questions because i know they 're out there on people 's minds .

thank you .

tesla , what is 236 multiplied by 501 ?

it is terrestrial skinning .

and karen armstrong , i think you would also say that it was some of your very wounding experiences in a religious life that , with a zigzag , have led to the charter for compassion .

the cpu could do the four fundamental functions of arithmetic — so addition , multiplication , subtraction , division — which already is a bit of a feat in metal , but it could also do something that a computer does and a calculator does n't : this machine could look at its own internal memory and make a decision .

i wonder , when the mail comes in , which will have offended the readers more .

so we thought of an augmented reality application using a tablet . let me show you just simulating what we could be doing , any of us could be doing , in a museum environment .

i was doing two and three meetings a week for two and a half years , and so was cathy and her staff and a handful of volunteers .

if that subtly nudges you to feel about them identically , that 's going to make it easier to save .

and we 've busted a bunch of myths .

but it did n't matter because we were documenting , and that was the thing .

i think about eating a lot , and i really love it .

we 've seen a 99 percent reduction in polio in 20 years .

the tapes from my tv show were n't very useful because there were too many other kinds of audio involved — movie soundtracks , for example , or gene siskel arguing with me — ( laughter ) and my words often had a particular emphasis that did n't fit into a sentence well enough .

secondly , we put it for infrastructure . food .

this led us to learn something new .

so the lamp is not just giving a light , it 's also giving a darkness .

so what does it mean about defining life ?

and you see the lamp here , i know .

and i say to young kids everywhere , as you 're growing up and as this structure is being developed inside of you , always be looking for that which you do well and that which you love doing , and when you find those two things together , man , you got it .

and it 's the combination of these things that has led me to the hobby of sound visualization , and , on occasion , has led me to play with fire .

so i 'm looking at this ; i see the athletes that have appeared in this issue , the sports .

what 's the potential impact on a patient 's ability to see ?

